Saint Bernard
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 3,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.6

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 5,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 2,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.62

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 1,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 2,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.15

Dog Breed Group:  Working DogsHeight:  2 feet, 2 inches to 2 feet, 6 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  120 to 180 poundsLife Span:  8 to 10 years
A late night cold sufferer fills the TV screen. His night-time affliction causes him to toss and turn, each cough painful and every sneeze wracking his body. Then a deep-throated bark draws this invalid to his door, where he finds a massive dog with a flask attached to his collar. By the end of the commercial, the Saint Bernard has done his job and the cold sufferer is fast asleep. The Saint Bernard did in fact rescue people from the cold — not the virus, of course, but the chill winds and snows of the Alps, so treacherous to travelers. Not surprisingly, he"s a kind, gentle, intelligent, good-natured dog. He"s also a giant, a large, muscular dog who can reach a height of 30 inches and a weight of 180 pounds. The Saint comes in shorthaired and longhaired varieties, the shorthaired being the one preferred by the monks of the Saint Bernard Hospice where the dogs originated. Despite his size, the Saint Bernard is a quiet indoor dog who makes a wonderful family friend. Although he"s calm indoors, it"s nice if he has easy access to a yard where he can have a little room to spread out. He can live in small quarters, however, as long as he gets a good daily walk. More important than the size of your home is your tolerance for mess. Saints aren"t the best choice for a fastidious housekeeper. They drool and shed, and they track in mud and dirt. With this breed, saintliness is not necessarily next to cleanliness. Saints aren"t suited to living outdoors with little human companionship. They need to live in the home with their family. They"re not aggressive, but they"ll bark when there is cause, and any threat to their people will bring out their protective instincts. Their size is usually a deterrent to any would-be attacker or burglar. The easygoing Saint is gentle and patient with children if not necessarily playful. He"s great to snuggle with while reading or watching television, but he can be a bit much for younger children, accidentally knocking them over with a swipe of his tail. The Saint Bernard does not need a lot of exercise. He"s not a jogging companion and will wilt in hot climates. Saints suffer from heat exhaustion quite easily and need access to shade and plenty of fresh, cool water during hot weather. On the other hand, you"ll never find a happier Saint Bernard than one who"s enjoying a good romp in the snow. On a sadder note, the Saint"s giant size condemns him to a shorter than average canine life span. He also can suffer from a variety of genetic diseases and disorders. The St. Bernard is a much-loved breed today. He"s versatile, good-natured, and a fine choice for the person or family who would like a large but gentle dog with moderate exercise needs.
A Saint Bernard is a giant-size breed and although they are generally quiet inside, they are not best suited to apartments. They need space to move or just to stretch out in. If you consider yourself a neat freak, then the Saint Bernard is not the breed for you. They drool and their paws track in their fair share of mud. They are heavy shedders and shed, or blow, their coat twice a year. Saint Bernards generally take longer to mature mentally. This leaves you with a very big puppy for several years. Although Saint Bernards make wonderful family pets, they are not recommended for homes with young children, as they can unintentionally knock over and hurt small children. Originally bred to withstand the cold temperatures of the Alps, the Saint Bernard does not do well in heat. Saint Bernards are not known for barking without cause. Saint Bernards are a short-lived breed, usually only 8 to 10 years. The Saint Bernard should not live outdoors away from his family. All dogs do better when they are in the house with the family they love, and the Saint Bernard is no exception. Although their coats and build make them an obvious choice for outdoor living, their temperament and inability to cope with heat makes it a poor decision. Thanks to the popularity of movies such as Beethoven, which features a large Saint Bernard, many irresponsible breeders and puppy mills produce these gentle giants. To make sure you get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Saint Bernard originated in Switzerland along with several other breeds, including the Bernese Mountain Dog, Entlebuch Cattle Dog, Appenzell Cattle Dog, and Greater Swiss Mountain Dog. They probably were created when dogs native to the Alps were crossed with Mastiff-type dogs that came with the Roman army during the time of the emperor Augustus. By the first millennium CE, dogs in Switzerland and the Alps were grouped together and known simply as Talhund" (Valley Dog) or "Bauernhund" (Farm Dog). The Saint Bernard Pass is a well-known and treacherous alpine pass that lies roughly 8,000 feet above sea level and can only be traveled between July and September. Today remnants of the great Roman road can be seen, as well as evidence of Napoleon"s crossing. Archdeacon Bernard de Menthon arrived at this pass, which would eventually be named after him, in 962 AD, and there he founded his hospice, which aided travelers who were overcome by crossing this treacherous pass. That"s when the Saint Bernard"s history began to branch out from the Talhund or Bauerhund. It is unclear when the dogs were first used by the Hospice, but a painting depicting well-built shorthaired dogs that greatly resembled Saint Bernards as they are today was painted in 1695. The first written mention of the breed in the monastery"s records was in 1703. The dogs were probably originally used by the hospice monks to guard the grounds. When the monks went in search of lost travelers, they may have brought along the dogs for protection and discovered by accident that they were excellent pathfinders with an ability to locate helpless travelers. The isolation of the monastery probably contributed to the refinement of the dogs into a breed that could withstand harsh winters and had the physical characteristics needed for their search and rescue work. The Hospice"s breeding stock was occasionally replenished by dogs from the lower valleys, many of which were puppies of the hospice dogs that weren"t needed at the time of their birth. In 1830, the monks attempted to improve their dogs" coats by crossing them with the thick-coated Newfoundland. That was a mistake. The longhaired offspring were inferior because ice built up in their longer coats. After that time, the monks gave away or sold any longhaired puppies they produced. During the three centuries for which the Hospice has records, Saint Bernards were credited with saving more than 2,000 travelers. By the 1800s, the hospice dogs did not have a formal name, although they were well known. Between 1800 and 1810, a hospice dog named Barry was credited with 40 finds and became one of the most famous dogs to ever live. Often the dogs were referred to as Barryhunden in his honor. The English referred to them as Sacred Dogs and imported many of them into England in an effort to reinvigorate their own Mastiff breed. In Germany, the name Alpendog was suggested for the breed in the 1820s. In 1833, a man by the name of Daniel Wilson suggested that the breed be referred to as the Saint Bernard Dog, and that"s eventually what they became when the Swiss Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1880. When the breed began to be known in other countries, the Saint Bernard"s type started to change. The Saint Bernards in other countries became thinner and taller, the by-product of crossbreedings. In 1887, the International Congress of Zurich drew up the first breed standard and all countries, except England, accepted it. In the United States, a Saint Bernard named Plinlimmon became well known in 1883. Plinlimmon was owned by an actor and became the top-winning Saint Bernard show dog of his time. His owner took him across the country, exhibiting him at theaters. In 1888, the Saint Bernard Club of America (SBCA) was founded, and the club accepted the breed standard written by the Swiss. Saints rank 39th among the 155 breeds and varieties registered by the American Kennel Club. Today, Saint Bernards can be seen in homes, on the big screen, and at dog shows. There are still Saint Bernards at the Saint Bernard Hospice in Switzerland. They no longer seek out travelers in need but instead serve as living representatives of hospice history.
Male Saint Bernards stand 28 to 30 inches at the shoulder and weigh 140 to 180 pounds; females are 26 to 28 inches and weigh 120 to 140 pounds.
True to their heritage as hospice dogs, Saints are friendly and welcoming. They have a steady, benevolent temperament and are kind and careful with children. They love attention but aren"t as demanding of it as some breeds. Because of their large size, it"s important to begin training Saints at an early age, while they"re still easily manageable. They"re intelligent and willing to please but sometimes stubborn. They should never be aggressive unless it"s in defense of a family member. Like every dog, Saint Bernards need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Saint Bernard puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Saints are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Saints will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Saints, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Hip Dysplasia: This is a heritable condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but you may not notice any signs of discomfort in a dog with hip dysplasia. As the dog ages, arthritis can develop. X-ray screening for hip dysplasia is done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred. If you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems. Hip dysplasia is hereditary, but it can also be triggered by environmental factors, such as rapid growth from a high-calorie diet or injuries incurred from jumping or falling on slick floors. Elbow Dysplasia: This is a heritable condition common to large-breed dogs. It"s thought to be caused by different growth rates of the three bones that make up the dog"s elbow, causing joint laxity. This can lead to painful lameness. Your vet may recommend surgery to correct the problem, medication to control the pain, or weight management. Entropion: This defect, which is usually obvious by six months of age, causes the eyelid to roll inward, irritating or injuring the eyeball. One or both eyes can be affected. If your Saint has entropion, you may notice him rubbing at his eyes. The condition can be corrected surgically. Epilepsy: This disorder causes mild or severe seizures. Epilepsy can be hereditary; it can be triggered by such events as metabolic disorders, infectious diseases that affect the brain, tumors, exposure to poisons, or severe head injuries; or it can be of unknown cause (referred to as idiopathic epilepsy). Seizures may be exhibited by unusual behavior, such as running frantically as if being chased, staggering, or hiding. Seizures are frightening to watch, but the long-term prognosis for dogs with idiopathic epilepsy is generally very good. Epilepsy can be controlled with medication, but it cannot be cured. A dog can live a full and healthy life with the proper management of this disorder. If your Saint has seizures, take him to the vet right away for a diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Dilated Cardiomyopathy: This heart condition occurs when the heart muscle becomes very thin and is unable to contract normally. Because the heart must work harder, it becomes enlarged. Dogs with this disease have an abnormal heart rhythm and show signs of heart failure, including weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, depression, collapse, difficulty breathing, a soft cough, and an enlarged abdomen. There is no cure, but rest, diet, and medication can help for a time. Cataracts: A cataract is an opacity on the lens of the eye that causes difficulty in seeing. The eye(s) of the dog will have a cloudy appearance. Cataracts usually occur in old age and sometimes can be surgically removed to improve the dog"s vision. Allergies: Allergies are a common ailment in dogs. Allergies to certain foods are identified and treated by eliminating certain foods from the dog"s diet until the culprit is discovered. Contact allergies are caused by a reaction to something that touches the dog, such as bedding, flea powders, dog shampoos, or other chemicals. They are treated by identifying and removing the cause of the allergy. Inhalant allergies are caused by airborne allergens such as pollen, dust, and mildew. The appropriate medication for inhalant allergies depends on the severity of the allergy. Ear infections are a common side effect of inhalant allergies. Gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV): Also called bloat or torsion, this is a life-threatening condition that can affect deep-chested dogs such as Saint Bernards, especially if they are fed one large meal a day, eat rapidly, drink large volumes of water after eating, and exercise vigorously after eating. Some think that raised feeding dishes and the type of food might also be factors in bloat. It is more common among older dogs, but can occur at any age. GDV occurs when the stomach is distended with gas or air and then twists (torsion). The dog is unable to belch or vomit to rid itself of the excess air in its stomach, and the normal return of blood to the heart is impeded. Blood pressure drops and the dog goes into shock. Without immediate medical attention, the dog can die. Suspect bloat if your dog has a distended abdomen, is drooling excessively and retching without throwing up. He also may be restless, depressed, lethargic, and weak with a rapid heart rate. It"s important to get your dog to the vet as soon as possible. There is some indication that a tendency toward GDV is inherited, so it"s recommended that dogs who develop this condition should be neutered or spayed.
Saint Bernards need only moderate amounts of exercise, but it"s important that they get it to prevent obesity. Carrying too much weight is hard on their joints and can cause arthritis or orthopedic problems. Limit the amount of exercise you give your Saint Bernard puppy until he reaches mature size. Don"t let him put on weight too quickly or run or jump on slick floors. That"s just asking for hip problems. Saint Bernards are prone to heat exhaustion and heatstroke. Avoid letting them exercise in the heat of the day, and be sure they always have access to shade and fresh water. Be aware of the signs of fatigue and heat exhaustion, which include heavy panting, dark-red gums, and weakness or collapse. An untrained Saint can wreak havoc in your home and drag you down the sidewalk in his eagerness to greet people, so early training is essential. Train your Saint Bernard using a happy and relaxed approach. Lay down ground rules and be consistent in requiring that he follow them. Saint Bernards are naturally friendly, but all puppies benefit from puppy socialization class to help them learn how to properly react to other dogs and strangers. Investing in puppy kindergarten and obedience classes, as well as spending 10 to 15 minutes per day practicing at home, will be well worth your time, effort, and money. Crate training is an important tool that breeders will recommend. It aids in housetraining, keeps your dog or puppy and your belongings safe, and is a safe haven where your Saint Bernard can retreat when he"s feeling overwhelmed or tired. A crate should never be used as a punishment but instead should be viewed by your dog as a cozy refuge. The well-trained Saint Bernard is a wonderful family companion and can go on to do many fun activities, including conformation showing (dog shows), obedience trials, and cart pulling.
Recommended daily amount: 5 to 6 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Saint Bernards like to eat and are prone to obesity. Keep your Saint in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Saint Bernard, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Saint Bernards can be found in two coat types: shorthaired and longhaired. The shorthaired coat is smooth but dense. The hair is slightly bushy on the thighs, and the tail is covered with long, dense hair that becomes shorter toward the tip. The longhaired coat is slightly wavy but never curly or shaggy. The forelegs have a bit of feathering, but the thighs and tail are bushy. Saint Bernards are various shades of red with white or white with red. The red comes in various shades, from brindle patches with white markings to brownish-yellow. The white occurs on the chest, around the neck (known as the collar), around the nose (the noseband), and on the feet and tip of the tail. A white spot on the nape of the neck and a white blaze on the face are especially attractive and desirable, as are dark markings on the head and ears that resemble a mask. The white markings are said to resemble the liturgical vestments worn by a priest and the black mask to reduce the glare from the snow. Brush your Saint about three times a week with a rubber curry brush or hound glove for shorthaired coats or a pin brush for longhaired coats. During shedding season, use a shedding blade to remove loose hair. If your Saint develops mats behind the ears or on the thighs, spray a detangler solution on the area and gently work out the mat with your fingers or a comb. St. Bernards don"t need to be bathed frequently. When you do give a bath, it"s easiest to do it outdoors unless you have a large walk-in shower. Wintertime baths should always be given indoors unless you live in a climate that"s warm year-round. Use a shampoo made for dogs to ensure that the coat doesn"t become dry. You may want to use a whitening shampoo to keep the coat its whitest and brightest. Saint Bernards often develop stains around their eyes. Keep the eyes stain-free by wiping them daily with a damp cloth or using a product formulated to remove eye stains, which you can find at pet supply stores. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene, nail care, and ear care. Brush your Saint"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and prevent your legs from getting scratched when your Saint enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. When you trim the nails, trim the hair between the toes at the same time. Check ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them clean with a cotton ball, using an ear cleaner recommended by your veterinarian. Never insert a cotton swab into the ear canal. Begin accustoming your Saint to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early. If you are unsure about how to groom your Saint Bernard, ask your dog"s breeder for advice or take your Saint to a professional groomer.
Saints are, well, saintly around kids. Patient and gentle, they step carefully around them and will put up with a lot. That doesn"t mean they should have to, though. Supervise interactions between young children and Saints to make sure there"s no ear- or tail-pulling, biting, or climbing on or knocking over on the part of either party. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs and never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how trustworthy or well trained, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Saints can also get along well with other pets, especially if they"re introduced to them in puppyhood. Supervise them around smaller dogs and cats just to make sure they don"t accidentally step or lie on them.
No information found

Saluki
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.8

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 1,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 2.75

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 4,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.05

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.23

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  1 foot, 11 inches to 2 feet, 4 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  35 to 70 poundsLife Span:  12 to 14 years
The Saluki"s origins are shrouded in the sands of time, but his history is believed to go back to antiquity. He is the very definition of grace and speed, well deserving of the name bestowed on him by his Arab breeders — The Noble. The Saluki is bred for speed, strength, and endurance, qualities that are evident in his long, narrow head and sleek yet muscular body. Beautiful but reserved, the Saluki is affectionate without being overly demonstrative. He"s happy to prove his loyalty through quiet companionship. Not everyone is offered the gift of a Saluki"s devoted friendship, but those happy few who receive it are appreciative of the honor. Salukis are widely admired for their exotic appearance, but not everyone is well suited to live with this spirited and independent hunter. Any movement, be it a squirrel, cat, or radio-controlled car, will activate the Saluki"s instinct to chase, and his speed has been clocked at 30 to 35 miles per hour. Unless he"s protected by a strong human on the other end of the leash or a securely fenced yard, he"s likely to meet his end beneath the wheels of a car. You might think that Salukis living in the country would have fewer issues, but they"ve been known to chase down and tangle with or kill goats, otters, foxes, raccoons, snakes, squirrels, and deer. To keep a Saluki safe and well exercised, provide him with 300 to 400 lateral feet of fenced area where he can run full out. If your yard isn"t that large, you should have easy access to a fenced park, an enclosed sports field at a school, or a beach with no nearby road. On leash, the Saluki makes an excellent jogging companion — if you can keep up with him. He"s also a good competitor in agility and lure coursing. Some Salukis participate in obedience and tracking as well. Indoors, the Saluki will make himself at home on your soft sofa or bed. He likes his comforts and needs cushioning for his somewhat bony body. Using his long, skinny muzzle, he"ll surf your kitchen counters in search of anything edible. The calm and gentle Saluki can become timid and shy without early socialization and regular reinforcement through new experiences and introductions to many different people throughout his life. Generally quiet but alert, he"s a good watchdog, but not a guard dog. Salukis are fearless in the hunt but otherwise unaggressive. Training a Saluki is possible, but don"t expect the perfect obedience you might have from a Golden Retriever. Salukis think for themselves, and if something else is more interesting than what you"re asking them to do, they"re perfectly happy to ignore you. Use positive reinforcement techniques such as food rewards and praise, never harsh verbal or physical corrections. Salukis can make excellent companions for older children, but they aren"t recommended for homes with young children. They"re tolerant, but young Salukis can be too active for children younger than 8 years of age, and their thin skin and knobby bones make them vulnerable to injury if children aren"t careful. While Salukis aren"t overly demonstrative, they do become strongly attached to their people and dislike being left alone for long periods. Consider a Saluki if you have time to give to a devoted, graceful friend who can run like the wind.
Salukis love to run and need regular daily exercise. They must be kept on leash whenever they"re not in a securely fenced area. They have a strong prey drive and will pursue anything furry and in motion, heedless of their owner"s commands. Salukis are a reserved breed although they"re devoted to their people. Early and ongoing socialization is important for this breed to prevent shyness and skittishness. Salukis are not recommended for apartments. They require a large fenced yard where they can run safely. Underground electronic fencing is not recommended; their prey drive is so strong they"ll push past it. It is important to provide comfortable bedding for a Saluki since he doesn"t have enough body fat to provide padding. Salukis should not live outdoors. They thrive on human companionship and will become depressed if left alone for long periods. Although these dogs can make gentle and calm companions for older children, they are not recommended for homes with small children. Salukis are generally quiet dogs. When training a Saluki, be consistent, and use only positive reinforcement techniques such as food rewards and praise, since the breed is so sensitive. Salukis are fastidious and like to be clean. They shed little and require only weekly brushing. Salukis should not reside in homes that have small pets. Even with the best training, a Saluki will view small pets as prey and will try to hunt them. Salukis prefer the companionship of other Salukis, but they can get along with other dogs that do not have dominant natures. Salukis can be picky eaters. Never buy a Saluki from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments.
Once known as the Persian Greyhound or the gazelle hound, the Saluki has long been considered one of the most ancient of breeds. Recent genetic evidence confirms this to be the case. Scientists speculate that Salukis and other ancient breeds descend from the first dogs and made their way through the world with their nomadic owners. Depictions of dogs resembling Salukis — with a Greyhoundlike body and feathering on the ears, tail, and legs — appear on Egyptian tombs dating to 2100 B.C.E., some 4,000 years ago. Even older are carvings from the Sumerian empire (7,000-6,000 B.C.E.) that show dogs with a striking resemblance to the Saluki. Pharaohs hunted gazelles and hares with Salukis, which often worked in partnership with falcons. The dogs were frequently honored with mummification after death. Nomadic Muslims, who generally despised dogs as unclean animals, considered Salukis a gift from Allah and referred to the dogs by the honorific El Hor, meaning The Noble. Salukis were the only dogs permitted to sleep inside the tents. The breed may take its name from the ancient city of Saluk, in Yemen, or perhaps from the city of Seleukia in Syria. Another theory suggests that the name is a transliteration of the Arabic word for hound. Salukis were widespread in the Middle East and could be found in Persia (modern-day Iran), Syria, Egypt, Palestine, Anatolia, Mesopotamia, and Arabia. The first documented case of Salukis arriving in Britain was in 1840, but it wasn"t until after World War I, when many British officers returned with them from the Middle East, that the breed became established in Great Britain. Interest in the Saluki was slower to take hold in the United States. The Saluki Club of America was founded in 1927, the same year the breed was recognized by the American Kennel Club. The first Saluki registered by the AKC was Jinniyat of Grevel in 1929. Today the Saluki is a rare treasure, ranking 116th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
Saluki males stand 23 to 28 inches at the shoulder; females are significantly smaller. Weight ranges from 35 to 70 pounds.
The Saluki is an aloof dog, but one who"s devoted to his family. He"s gentle and thrives on quiet companionship. He has a tendency to bond with a single person, which can lead to separation anxiety. With strangers, Salukis are reserved, and they can be shy if they"re not socialized at an early age. Socialization should continue throughout their life. They generally get along with other dogs, but prefer other Salukis, or at least other sighthounds. They"re sensitive dogs and will pick up on and become stressed by tensions in the home. Salukis love comfort and enjoy being pampered with soft bedding and access to furniture. Like cats, they"re fastidious about personal cleanliness. Like every dog, Salukis need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Saluki puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
The Saluki is a hardy breed that does not suffer from many genetically inherited diseases. The following problems may be seen in Salukis: Anesthesia Sensitivity: Because of their low level of body fat, sighthounds such as the Saluki have a reputation for being sensitive to anesthesia and certain other drugs. Fortunately, the new drugs available these days have properties that make sighthound reactions to drugs much less likely. In addition, most veterinarians are aware of the special anesthesia and drug needs of sighthounds, but it never hurts to confirm this awareness if you"re taking your Saluki to a new veterinarian. Hemangiosarcoma: This malignant cancer is found in the lining of blood vessels and the spleen. Cardiomyopathy: This disease of the heart muscle takes two forms: dilated and hypertrophic. Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the progressive enlargement of the ventricles, the heart"s main pumping chambers. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy causes a drastic increase in heart muscle mass. DCM is the most common form of cardiomyopathy and tends to affect young to middle-aged males in larger breeds. Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism is an abnormally low level of the hormone produced by the thyroid gland. A mild sign of the disease may be infertility. More obvious signs include obesity, mental dullness, drooping of the eyelids, low energy levels, and irregular heat cycles. The dog"s fur becomes coarse and brittle and begins to fall out, while the skin becomes tough and dark. Hypothyroidism can be treated with daily medication, which must continue throughout the dog"s life. A dog receiving daily thyroid treatment can live a full and happy life. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Salukis, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for cardiac (heart) and thyroid disease. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old.
Salukis are not suited for apartment life. They need a home with a large, securely fenced yard where they can run flat out. The ideal running area for a Saluki is 300 to 400 feet in length or width. Fences should be at least five to six feet high or a Saluki will easily jump them. Underground electronic fencing will not contain a Saluki, nor will it protect him from other animals that might enter your yard. Keep your Saluki on leash whenever he"s not in an enclosed area. A Saluki was bred for hunting and has a strong prey drive. If he sees anything fast and furry, he"ll pursuit it for as long as he can, disregarding any commands to come or stop. Salukis are indoor dogs and require soft, cushioned bedding to prevent calluses from forming. Place food well out of reach of the Saluki"s inquiring nose. That means behind closed doors or up about seven feet. Salukis are intelligent and learn quickly, but they"re also independent and can be stubborn, which makes training a challenge. To hold your Saluki"s attention, keep training sessions short, fun, and interesting. If a Saluki becomes bored, he will choose not to learn. Use positive reinforcement, never harsh verbal or physical corrections.
Recommended daily amount: 1.75 to 2.75 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Salukis are the supermodels of the dog world and can be picky eaters. Remember that they are supposed to look sleek, and you may just barely see the outline of their ribs beneath their skin. For more on feeding your Saluki, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Saluki has a short, smooth, silky body coat. The entire body can be smooth, or the Saluki can have slight feathering on the legs, the backs of the thighs and sometimes the shoulders, and the underside of the tail. The long ears are covered with silky hair. Salukis come in white, cream, fawn, golden, grizzle and tan, black and tan, and tricolor (white, black, and tan). The pigmentation of the nose is black or liver. Salukis are a clean, low-shedding breed with no doggy odor. Brush the coat weekly to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. Comb feathering once or twice a week to remove tangles. A wipedown with a damp cloth is generally enough to keep your Saluki clean, so bathe him only if he"s dirty. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Saluki"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and won"t scratch your legs when your Saluki jumps up to greet you. Begin getting your Saluki used to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Salukis can make excellent companions for older children, but they aren"t recommended for homes with young children. They"re tolerant, but young Salukis can be too active for children younger than 8 years of age, and their thin skin and knobby bones make them vulnerable to injury if children aren"t careful. They generally get along with other dogs, but prefer other Salukis, or at least other sighthounds. They won"t chase small dogs or cats in their own household, but other animals, such as pet birds, mice, rabbits, or hamsters could prove too much of a temptation.
No information found

Samoyed
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 2,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.6

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 5,
"Drooling Potential" : 2,
"Easy To Groom" : 1,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.38

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 3,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.41

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.54

Dog Breed Group:  Working DogsHeight:  1 foot, 7 inches to 2 feet tall at the shoulderWeight:  50 to 60 poundsLife Span:  12 to 14 years
It"s known as the "Sammy smile," the slight, but discernible, upturned corners of the Samoyed"s mouth. This is a happy, good-natured dog with a glass half-full attitude toward life and the people he lives with. The Samoyed"s fondness for humans probably stems from his close association with the Samoyede (now know as the Nenetsky) people who bred and raised him thousands of years ago on the Taimyr Peninsula of Siberia. The dogs pulled sleds, herded reindeer, hunted game, and protected the Samoyede against predators. The dogs also lived with the people, played with the children (which he still enjoys), and helped keep them warm in the cold climate. To this day, the Samoyed"s reputation as an intelligent, dignified, family dog is well deserved. He often chooses to dote on one special person in the household, but he is affectionate with everyone in the pack. Happiest when he is part of family life, this breed needs to be with people. In fact, leaving a Samoyed alone too much is the best way to make him miserable. Along with his smile, the Sammy"s defining trait is his ultra-thick white coat. In the winter months, it"s so dense you can barely see his skin underneath — which means heavy shedding in the spring. And believe it or not, Samoyed "wool" is a favorite of weavers; the wool is carded, spun, and woven or knitted into warm, beautiful clothing. As gorgeous as it is, the Sammy coat is a bear to groom. Owners must be diligent brushers to make sure it doesn"t tangle and mat. And as you might guess, come shedding time, the amount of white hair around the house, yard, on the furniture, and stuck to your clothes can be overwhelming. That said, to the owner who can handle the responsibility, a well-groomed Samoyed is a sight for sore eyes. As friendly and smart as this breed is, the Samoyed is challenging to own. He can be a talkative dog, voicing his likes and dislikes with bellows, howls, or barks. It"s best to keep this working dog busy, otherwise he"s likely to resort to annoying or destructive behaviors such as digging, jumping the fence, getting into garbage, or chewing shoes. His hunting instinct is strong, so it"s difficult for him to resist chasing squirrels, rabbits, or even cats. Even a well-trained Samoyed can"t be trusted off leash. Training the Samoyed is also challenging. This breed is smart, and learns quickly, but you must approach training with the right attitude. Give the him something to figure out; don"t bore him with repetition. Agility and tracking make perfect "thinking exercises" for the Samoyed.
The Samoyed"s white, fluffy coat is beautiful, but to keep it in good condition requires rigorous grooming. Shedding could be the Samoyed"s middle name — he does so profusely once or twice a year. Expect to brush the dog and vacuum your home daily during shedding season. The Samoyed doesn"t like to sit around — he likes to be busy. Keep him active with walks, games, hikes, and canine sports. The Samoyed"s characteristic smile reveals his friendly, good-natured disposition. He is especially fond of children. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The hardy and sweet-tempered Samoyed was originally used to hunt, herd reindeer, and haul sledges for the Siberian Samoyede people. It is said that the Samoyede treated these working dogs kindly, allowing them to join in with family activities at the end of a day. It was this closeness that created a sense of trust and loyalty in the breed that remains today. The Samoyed journeyed out of Siberia at the end of the 19th century and the early part of the 20th century to pull sledges on polar expeditions, including Sir Ernest Shackleton"s famous journey to the Antarctic. These dogs endured terrible hardships along with the explorers they assisted. Only the strongest and fittest dogs survived such expeditions. A Samoyed named Antarctic Buck is said to be the very first brought to England. Queen Alexandra was an enthusiast of the breed and many present-day English and American Sammies are descended from her kennels. The first standard for the breed was adopted in England in 1909. The original Samoyed Club of America was organized in 1923, the same year the American breed standard was adopted.
Males stand 21 to 23.5 inches tall. Females stand 19 to 21 inches tall. Males and females weigh 50 to 60 pounds.
The well-bred Samoyed is an intelligent, gentle, and loyal dog. He is friendly and affectionate with his family, including the children, and thrives on being part of household activity. The Samoyed is not a "lone wolf" dog — he enjoys close association with those he lives and is mentally and physically unsuited for being left alone in a kennel or back yard. His loyalty and alertness often make for a good watchdog. At heart, the Samoyed is still a hunter. He is likely to chase after small animals that he perceives as prey. For his safety, he should always be leashed when he"s not at home in his fenced yard. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Samoyed needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Samoyed puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Samoyeds are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Samoyeds will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Samoyeds, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Glaucoma: Glaucoma is defined by an increased pressure in the eye, and can be found in two forms: primary, which is hereditary, and secondary, which is caused by decreased fluid in the eye due to other eye diseases. Symptoms include vision loss and pain, and treatment and prognosis vary depending on the type. Glaucoma is treated surgically or with eye drops. Hip Dysplasia: This is an inherited condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but others don"t display outward signs of discomfort. (X-ray screening is the most certain way to diagnose the problem.) Either way, arthritis can develop as the dog ages. Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred — so if you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems. Samoyed Hereditary Ghlomerulopathy: This is a genetic disease of the kidney. The condition is more severe in males who appear healthy for the first three months of life until symptoms appear. Death from renal failure usually occurs by 15 months of age. Females develop mild symptoms at 2 to 3 months of age, but do not suffer renal failure. To date, there is no genetic screening test available for Samoyed hereditary glomerulopathy, but research is ongoing. Patellar Luxation: Also known as slipped stifles, this is a common problem in small dogs. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling, although many dogs lead relatively normal lives with this condition. Hypothyroidism: This is a disorder of the thyroid gland. It"s thought to be responsible for conditions such as epilepsy, alopecia (hair loss), obesity, lethargy, hyperpigmentation, pyoderma ,and other skin conditions. It is treated with medication and diet. Diabetes Mellitus (DM): DM is a disorder in which the body cannot regulate blood sugar levels. A diabetic dog will exhibit a healthy appetite, but will lose weight because food is not being used efficiently. Symptoms of diabetes are excessive urination and thirst, increased appetite, and weight loss. Diabetes can be controlled by diet and the administration of insulin. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): This is a family of eye diseases that involves the gradual deterioration of the retina. Early in the disease, affected dogs become night-blind; they lose sight during the day as the disease progresses. Many affected dogs adapt well to their limited or lost vision, as long as their surroundings remain the same. Subvalvular Aortic Stenosis: This is a heart problem is caused by a narrow connection between the left ventricle and the aorta. It can cause fainting and even sudden death. Ask your vet about detecting it and prescribing the proper treatment. Cancer: Symptoms include abnormal swelling of a sore or bump, sores that do not heal, bleeding from any body opening, and difficulty with breathing or elimination. Treatments for cancer include chemotherapy, surgery, and medications.
The active Samoyed is not suited to apartment or condo life. A home with a large, securely fenced yard is the best choice. Because the Samoyed is a working dog, he needs room to romp and play. Keep him mentally challenged with ongoing training and dog sports. Allow him to become bored and he"s likely to dig, escape, or chew to entertain himself. Note: The Samoyed should be kept on leash whenever he"s in public; he seldom can resist the lure of small, scurrying animals. With his Nordic heritage, the Samoyed is a natural fit for cold climates, and he loves to play in the snow. Conversely, with his thick coat, he can be sensitive to heat. Do not allow him to exercise strenuously when it is extremely hot — limit high-level activity to early morning or evening when it"s cooler. During the heat of the day, keep your Sammy inside with fans or air conditioning. You"ll need to take special care if you"re raising a Samoyed puppy. Like many large breed dogs, the Samoyed grows rapidly between the age of four and seven months, making them susceptible to bone disorders and injury. They do well on a high-quality, low-calorie diet that keeps them from growing too fast. Additionally, don"t let your Samoyed puppy run and play on hard surfaces (such as pavement), jump excessively, or pull heavy loads until he is at least two years old and his joints are fully formed. Normal play on grass is fine, and so are puppy agility classes with one-inch high jumps. Another important step in training a Samoyed puppy is socialization (the process by which puppies or adults dogs learn how to be friendly and get along with other dogs and people). Like any dog, he can become timid if he is not properly socialized and exposed to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences when he"s young. Formal puppy and obedience classes are also recommended to teach the Samoyed proper canine manners.
Recommended daily amount: 1.5 to 2.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Samoyed puppies need slow, steady growth. Feed a good-quality diet with 22 to 24 percent protein, and 12 to 15 percent fat. Keep your Samoyed in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Samoyed, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Samoyed has a straight outer coat and a soft, thick undercoat (often referred to as wool). It can be pure white, white and biscuit, cream, or biscuit — and sheds heavily. Maintenance can be daunting. Daily brushing is necessary when the coat is shedding; once or twice a week when it"s not. He"ll need bathing about once every eight weeks, or whenever he rolls in mud or something smelly (very likely). Bathing the Samoyed is a time-commitment too, as thoroughly soaking the coat, rinsing out the shampoo, and letting it dry completely is no quick process. Many owners opt to hire a professional groomer for their Samoyed. Though costly, it helps to take some burden off the owner. However, you still need to brush regularly. Brush your Samoyed"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your Samoyed to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Samoyed is deeply attached to his family, and this certainly includes children. A properly socialized Sammy truly enjoys the attention and company of youngsters if they are instructed on how to treat the dog with care and respect. Due to his size and strength, a Samoyed can easily knock over a small child without even being aware of what has happened, so a responsible adult should supervise all interactions between kids and canines. As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. The even-tempered Samoyed also enjoys the company of other dogs. This is especially true if he has been raised with other dogs from an early age. (As in any breed, dogs of the same sex that have not been spayed or neutered may not be as tolerant of one another.) Remember, though, that the Samoyed is hardwired to chase prey. For harmonious coexistence with cats and other animals in his household, training, socialization, and a proper introduction are essential. Following that, close supervision is advised.
No information found

Schipperke
Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  7 inches to 1 foot tall at the shoulderWeight:  7 to 15 poundsLife Span:  Starts at 10 years
As early as the 13th century, nobles hunted with packs of tiny Beagles. Known as "glove Beagles," because they reportedly fit in the palm of a heavy leather hunting glove, they were eventually replaced by the 13-inch and 15-inch Beagles we know today. Some modern-day breeders have attempted to recreate the little hounds, resulting in dogs that are referred to as mini Beagles or olde English pocket Beagles. Whatever his size, it"s difficult to resist the appeal of a Beagle"s dark brown or hazel eyes, with their soft, pleading expression. These are happy, outgoing, and loving dogs, characteristics that help balance their inquisitive, determined, and food-focused hound nature. They aren"t yappy dogs, but they do have three distinct vocalizations — a bark/growl, a baying howl and a half-baying howl (a cross between a frantic bark and a bay). The half-howl vocalization is usually reserved for when they catch sight of quarry, or decide to wake the neighbors at 6 a.m.! Being pack dogs, they generally get along well with other animals and their human friends and are inclined to think everyone is their new best friend. The most important thing to know about any size Beagle is that he is a scenthound. His nose is the most important part of his anatomy, and his head is always down to the ground, searching for an interesting trail to follow. Beagles have approximately 220 million scent receptors compared to the paltry 5 million or so in people, which makes them very good at picking up scents. Humorist Dave Barry once famously described his in-laws" Beagle as "a nose with feet." All Beagles of any size need frequent daily walks or active play periods. Expect to give a pocket Beagle at least an hour of exercise daily. And be warned that this isn"t a breed that walks briskly. Beagles mosey, nose to the ground, sniffing out everything around them. Beagles who are left alone and infrequently exercised become destructive. Just because they"re small doesn"t mean they can"t do a number on your décor.
Beagles can be difficult to housetrain. Some people say it can take up to a year to fully housetrain some Beagles. Crate-training is absolutely recommended. Beagles are very intelligent and can get bored if left alone too long. If left outside alone in a backyard, Beagles usually will start finding ways to amuse themselves, usually by howling, digging, or trying to find ways to get out and find some people or other dogs to play with. Be sure that you are prepared to work with your dog to control excessive barking and howling. The most common reason Beagles are turned over to rescue groups is because either their owners or their owners" neighbors got tired of their baying. Beagles are targets for thieves who would steal them and then perhaps sell them to research laboratories for use in experiments. Supervise your Beagle when he is outdoors and be sure to have him microchipped! Beagles are scenthounds and will wander off if they catch an enticing smell in the air. Their noses control their brains, and if they smell something interesting, nothing else exists in their world. Although loving and gentle, Beagles can have an independent, stubborn streak. Obedience training is recommended, but be sure the instructor of the class understands hound personality and favors using food as a reward (which few Beagles can resist). Do you remember how the famous cartoon Beagle Snoopy worried about his food bowl? Beagles are "chow hounds" and will overeat if given a chance. Monitor the amount of food you give them and be sure to keep your cupboards closed and your trashcans secured. Otherwise, your Beagle will sniff out the foods he likes the best. Teach children to respect your Beagle while he"s eating, and not to approach or tease him with food. A Beagle takes his food bowl pretty seriously. Beagles are not good protection or guard dogs because they"re usually friendly to everyone they meet.
The origin of the word "beagle" is uncertain. It"s thought that it may have been derived from the French word begueule, meaning open throat, or from the Old English word beag, meaning small. Others think it may have come from the French word beugler, meaning to bellow, or the German word begele, meaning to scold. The breed"s history is cloudy as well because breeds as we know them today didn"t really develop until the 19th century. But Greek documents from 400 B.C. describe Beagle-like dogs, and the Romans may have brought small rabbit-hunting hounds with them to England and bred them with the local hounds. William the Conqueror reportedly brought Talbot hounds (now extinct) to England during the Norman Conquest in 1066. These dogs are thought to be the ancestors of the Beagle and the Foxhound. Beagles became popular in England early in its history. During the reigns of Edward II (1307 AD - 1327 AD) and Henry VII (1485 AD - 1509 AD), extremely small beagles, called Glove Beagles — small enough to be held in a gloved hand — were popular. There"s also mention of Singing Beagles, named for their bugling voices. Elizabeth I (1533-1603) kept packs of Pocket Beagles who stood only 9 inches tall. These small dogs were depicted in paintings as short-legged and pointy nosed. They were used for hunting, but quickly fell out of favor because they weren"t very fast. In the 1700s, fox hunting became popular in England, and the Beagle was supplanted by the larger Foxhound. If it hadn"t been for the farmers in England, Ireland, and Wales who continued to keep packs to hunt rabbit and hare, the breed might have become extinct at that time. In the mid-1800s Reverend Phillip Honeywood established a pack of Beagles in Essex, England. These dogs are thought to be the ancestors of the modern Beagle. Rev. Honeywood bred for hunting skills, not looks. Thomas Johnson, a fellow Englishman, was responsible for breeding Beagles that were both attractive and good hunters. At about the same time, American breeders started importing Beagles from England to improve the looks of their own dogs. Many of the English imports were bred to an average height of 15 to 17 inches at the shoulder so they could hunt fox. American breeders started breeding them to be smaller for rabbit hunting. Of interest among these rabbit-hunters is the "Patch" Beagle strain, which was developed by Willet Randall in New York around 1880. The line is primarily white with a very large tri-colored spot. They were very popular in the 1940s and 1950s because they were able to run so fast. Today, many people call lemon and white or red and white beagles "Patch" beagles. The American Kennel Club and the first Beagle specialty club both were founded in 1884. In that same year, the AKC began registering Beagles. Beagles compete in one of two different height classes: Beagles 13 inches tall and under compete in the 13 inch class and Beagles between 13 and 15 inches tall compete in the 15 inch class. The American Kennel Club does not recognize a variety called the Pocket Beagle. Technically, the Pocket Beagle qualifies as a 13-inch Beagle, which is defined by the Beagle breed standard as any Beagle that doesn"t exceed 13 inches in height at the shoulder and typically weighs 15 to 18 pounds.
Breeders of Pocket Beagles put their height at 7 to 12 inches and weight at 7 to 15 pounds.
Beagles are gentle and sweet, smart and funny. They will make you laugh — that is when they"re not making you cry because of their often naughty behavior. Beagle people spend a lot of time trying to outthink their dogs, and are often forced to resort to food rewards to lure their hounds into a state of temporary obedience. As with every dog, Beagles need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences. Socialization helps ensure that your pocket Beagle puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
As with all dog breeds, the Beagle is prone to certain genetic or environmental diseases and conditions, and Pocket Beagles have more than most. While no dog is perfect and these ailments do not affect all Beagles, it is imperative to do your research to find a Beagle who"s been bred with health in mind. A reputable breeder will be proud to discuss the steps she"s taken to prevent health problems and to show you the following health certifications for a puppy"s parents: Orthopedic Foundation for Animals clearances for hips, knees, heart, and thyroid, and certification from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) that the eyes are normal. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than two years old. So look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following conditions are among those that may affect Pocket Beagles: Eye disorders including cherry eye, a common condition in which the gland of the third eyelid swells; glaucoma, an increase in the pressure of the fluid inside of the eye; cataracts, a clouded film over the eye lens; retinal dysplasia, a folding or displacement of the retina that can lead to blindness; and progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), a degenerative disease of the retinal visual cells, which progresses to blindness. Beagles also can suffer from Distichiasis, an abnormal growth of eyelashes on the margin of the eye, resulting in the eyelashes rubbing against the eye; and dry eye (keratoconjunctivitis sicca), dryness of the cornea and the conjunctiva. Contact your vet if you notice any redness, scarring, or excessive tearing. Epilepsy, a brain disorder that causes seizures, is fairly common in Beagles. Hypothyroidism, a dysfunction of the thyroid gland that causes weight gain, poor coat, reproductive problems and other issues, also is common in the breed. Beagle Dwarfism, which means the dog is smaller than normal. This condition may or may not be accompanied by other physical abnormalities, such as extremely short legs. Funny Puppy syndrome is a condition where a puppy is much smaller than its littermates and may require special feedings and treatments to survive. They often exhibit soreness in their feet and legs and may not be able to walk normally. Sometimes, these puppies grow up to be sickly dogs, but sometimes they show no signs of problems when mature. Chinese Beagle Syndrome (CBS) is a condition that is characterized by a wide skull and slanted eyes. The dog grows normally otherwise. Quite often, dogs with CBS have heart problems and toe abnormalities. Cleft Lip or Palate: The lip or palate isn"t completely closed, causing the dog to have difficulty eating, drinking, and breathing. Cryptorchidism is the failure of one or both testicles to descend from the abdomen. When you have your dog neutered, your vet will be able to remove the undescended testicles, thereby helping your dog avoid health problems that might arise from this condition. Hermaphroditism, the presence of both male and female chromosomes and tissue. Canine Hip Dysplasia, an abnormal formation of the hip socket that can cause pain and lameness. Epiphyseal Dysplasia, characterized by abnormally slow growth in the rear legs; sometimes causes soreness. Intervertebral Disc DiseaseI (IDD): Ruptured discs in the spine cause pain and paralysis. Patellar luxation. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. Patellar luxation ranges from a minor annoyance that causes little pain to a cripping defect.
A pocket Beagle is every bit as much a scenthound as his larger brethren, which means that when outside he should always be on a leash in unconfined areas. He"s a wanderer by nature, so in case he escapes — a common occurrence with Beagles — be sure he"s microchipped and wearing I.D. tags so he can be returned to you. Some people prefer to use an underground electronic fence, but this type of enclosure doesn"t prevent other animals from coming into your yard. Besides, if a scent is enticing enough your Beagle will be more than willing to risk a momentary shock to follow it. Like all dogs, Beagles benefit from obedience training. Positive reinforcement techniques work best because Beagles will simply tune out when treated harshly. Most Beagles are more than happy to do anything for a tasty treat. Adolescent Beagles are full of energy and need a lot of opportunities to work it all off. They love going for walks with their family, or, even better, a good run across a field to hunt down rabbits (not recommended unless you have adequately trained your dog to come back to you!). They can enjoy jogging with you, but wait until they are 18 months or older before starting them on such a repetitive exercise, or they could experience joint damage. When mature, a Beagle can become fairly lazy, content to lie about the house all day, and getting up mostly for meals and an occasional scratching of the ears. Since this is a breed is prone to obesity, it"s not a good idea to let this happen.
Recommended daily amount: 7/8 to 1 3/8 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Beagles are food thieves. These dogs will raid your pantry and garbage daily if given the chance, and they"re willing to eat until they pop. To keep his weight at a normal level, feed your Beagle at specific times each day rather than leaving food out all the time. Measure food carefully, and cut back if it looks like he"s putting on the pounds. He should have a waist when you look down at him, and you should be able to feel his ribs but not see them. If they"re buried beneath rolls of fat, he needs to go on a diet. Dole out treats sparingly. Your pocket Beagle will be just as happy to get a tiny-size training treat as a bigger biscuit. For more on feeding your Beagle, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The breed standard for Beagles says any hound color is acceptable. Hound colors include all shades and combinations of white or cream, black, tan, lemon, red, brown, liver, blue, and gray. The most common color for Beagles is tricolor with a black saddle (the area across the back), white legs, chest, belly, and a white tip on the tail, and tan on the head and around the saddle. The second most common color combination is red and white in an Irish spotting pattern on the face, neck, legs, and tip of the tail. All colors can have freckling, mottling (dark roundish blotches on a lighter background), ticking (small, isolated areas of black hairs on a white background), and grizzling (a mixture of black or red and white hairs). Whatever their color, they typically have a white tip on their tails so hunters can see them when they"re hunting in tall grass. Although you and I might think a Beagle has a short coat, it"s actually classified as medium length. It"s also smooth, dense, and resistant to rain. Beagles are clean dogs, unless, of course, they"ve found something appealingly stinky to roll in. Otherwise, they don"t require frequent baths. They should be brushed with a medium-bristle brush or a hound glove (a rubber mitt with nubs on the palm area) at least once a week to loosen and remove dead hair and encourage new hair growth. Beagles shed, but because their hair is short, it usually isn"t as noticeable as with other breeds. Their coats tend to get thicker in the winter, so they shed more in the spring. Since Beagles are drop-eared dogs, air doesn"t circulate well inside their ears and they can get infections, so don"t allow water or oils to enter his ears. Check their ears at least every two weeks for signs of infection or waxy buildup. Check them also if you notice your Beagle shaking his head a lot or scratching at his ears. You should check your Beagle"s nails once a week and trim them if they are getting long.
Beagles bond with everyone in the family, especially children. They can be rambunctious when playing, however, so they need to be properly socialized and supervised with very young children. In addition, Beagles tend to be "mouthy," grabbing things, like a child"s hand, with their mouths. They are doing this in fun and can be taught not to do this. Pocket beagles are small and can be easily injured. Make it a rule that young children can hold them only while sitting on the floor. That helps ensure that the dog doesn"t get dropped or carried around like a rag doll. It"s also important never to leave dogs and young children together without supervision. They can hurt each other without meaning to. Because of their pack dog heritage, Beagles enjoy company and don"t like to be left alone. Another dog or even a cat will help meet their companionship needs.
No information found

Schnoodle
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 3,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 5,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.31

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.32

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.38

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 11 inches to 2 feet, 4 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  45 to 75 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Pointer is instantly recognizable. From long head to finely pointed tail, his entire body suggests his purpose: to point game for the hunter. When a Pointer scents game birds he stands tall and still, one foot raised off the ground, pointing the hunter in the right direction. Before the development of guns, this was an essential skill, as birds were netted rather than shot. When shooting birds became popular, the Pointer was still needed to point and then retrieve them. Today, the Pointer is known as the Cadillac of bird dogs, prized for his speed, ability to go all day in the field, "stand steady to wing and shot" — meaning that he holds his position as birds rise into the sky and the guns go off — and his personable nature. His love of people and short, easy-care coat make him an excellent candidate as family companion as well. Pointer people like to say that their dogs don"t consider themselves dogs but members of the family. They"re sturdy and energetic enough to play all day with active children, and their alert nature makes them excellent watchdogs, sounding the alarm at anything out of the ordinary. Although he"s focused in the field — full of energy and "hunt" — he"s fun-loving and mischievous at home. For the Pointer who"s not a regular hunting dog, training and plenty of daily exercise will help channel his active body and mind into constructive pursuits rather than the destruction that can be wrought by a bored Pointer. Thanks to his sporting dog heritage, the Pointer runs hard and fast and is a super companion for a runner or cyclist. His competitive nature also makes the Pointer a natural at dog sports such as field trials, obedience, rally, and agility. This is a dog who loves to perform in public. His flashy looks and love of attention make him an excellent show dog as well. It"s clear that the Pointer has many wonderful attributes as a companion. That said, he can be overwhelming for older or first-time dog owners. Know what you"re getting when you bring a Pointer home: he needs consistent, ongoing training and an hour or two a day of play, walks, or other exercise — the more active the better. When all those things are in place, he"s a loyal and true friend.
Pointers are very active and require vigorous exercise every day. If you do not have the time or energy to exercise your Pointer at least one hour each day, then you should not purchase a Pointer. Pointers can be very destructive when they are bored or don"t get enough exercise, especially when young. This can result in chewing, digging, and many other negative behaviors that can lead to expensive vet bills and replacement costs. Pointers are wonderful family dogs who thrive when they can spend time with their people. A Pointer should not live outdoors but should enjoy the same comforts as his family. Although Pointers do very well with children, especially when raised with them, they are not best suited for homes with toddlers. They can be rambunctious as puppies and can unintentionally hurt small children by knocking them down or swiping them with that wagging tail. Pointers are not suited for apartment dwellings; they do much better in homes with a large fenced yard where they can expend some of their energy. Pointers generally do well with other dogs and other pets, especially if they"re raised with them. They may, however, be very interested in pet birds, and the two should be protected from each other. You don"t want your Pointer injured by a parrot"s beak, and you don"t want him trying to retrieve your parrot, canary or finch. Pointers are strong and energetic with a mind of their own. They"re not a good choice for first-time dog owners or people who aren"t strong enough to handle them and give them the exercise they need. Training is a must with this breed because he has a will of his own. Training can take time, but once the foundation is there, there is no limit to how far Pointers can go in various dog competitions. Pointers are average shedders and require only minimal grooming. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
Pointer was a term used to describe any breed of hunting dog that pointed at the game it was hunting. They are believed to have originated in Spain, although, like most breeds, their history is somewhat murky. Pointing-type dogs are said to have been known in England as early as 1650, but it"s also thought that English officers brought Spanish Pointers back from the Netherlands — which was then under Spanish control — in 1713 after participating in the War of the Spanish Succession. The Spanish Pointers were larger, heavier, slower dogs than the Pointer we know today, but their strong point — so to speak — was their pointing instinct, and they were used to strengthen that feature in the British dogs. The modern Pointer"s appearance was developed in England, probably through crosses with the Foxhound, Greyhound, Bloodhound, and later, various setters. Hunters hoped to b
No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found

Scottish Deerhound
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 2.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 2,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.1

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 5,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 3,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 4,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.18

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 5,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.46

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  2 feet, 4 inches to 2 feet, 8 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  75 to 110 poundsLife Span:  8 to 11 years
Affectionately known as the "Royal Dog of Scotland," it is not difficult to imagine how this breed, with its athletic, well-muscled build, came by the title. The Scottish Deerhound has a romantic past, a noble bearing, and a loving nature, so much so that Sir Walter Scott — himself the owner of deerhound named Maida — described the breed as "the most perfect creature of Heaven." What is the allure of this large dog, with his wiry coat and greyhound-type build? Much of it can"t be answered in words but must be witnessed firsthand. The Scottish Deerhound is affectionate toward everyone — family, friends, and strangers alike. He loves children and usually does well with other dogs, although the larger the better. With his long legs, he enjoys a nice jog with a human companion, but afterward is happy to laze around on the sofa and snooze in a sunny spot. This gentle dog has an elegant and polite air but is never aloof. While he"s undoubtedly loyal and courageous, he doesn"t make the best watchdog. His size might be intimidating to someone who doesn"t know him, but he"s too loving and friendly to pose any threat, and it rarely occurs to him to bark when someone approaches his home. He"s highly active as a puppy, but by the time he"s 3 to 5 years old he morphs into a couch potato. Nonetheless, he still requires long walks daily to maintain his tall, gangly body. The Scottish Deerhound is kind enough for people who are inexperienced with dogs, but even a novice should understand that he"s not the easiest breed to train. Deerhounds are lazy and approach training with a "What"s in it for me?" attitude. Although they have a reputation for not doing well in obedience or agility competitions, they can succeed in these arenas if their trainers are willing to put in hard work and consistent training. Scottish Deerhounds may also be slower than other breeds when it comes to housetraining, but the same patience and consistency that gives you a well-trained dog will be an asset with this step in training. Scottish Deerhounds are not recommended for apartment living despite their calm indoor nature. They do best when they have a large yard to run in, and the yard should be fenced to prevent them from chasing "prey" into the street. Underground electronic fencing should not be used with this breed; no shock will stop them once they go into chase mode. They"re best suited to homes without cats or other small pets that may trigger their prey drive. If you can meet the special needs of a giant breed built for speed, the Scottish Deerhound is a devoted companion who will fill your life with all the love his large and dignified heart can give.
Scottish Deerhounds need a securely fenced yard to keep them from chasing prey. Underground electronic fencing will not prevent them from giving chase. The Scottish Deerhound is not recommended in homes with smaller animals and pets that could be considered as "prey." If they are not properly socialized, and for some Scottish Deerhounds even socialization does not curb it, they will give chase whenever they see the other animal. This could result in the smaller animal being killed or injured. Scottish Deerhounds are not recommended for apartment living. Although they have relatively low activity levels indoors, they are a large dog and require lots of room to run. They require daily exercise and do best in a home with a large yard or acreage. Scottish Deerhounds should be walked on leash to prevent them from chasing a moving animal, but be aware that they can and will lift you off your feet if they do decide to take off and you"re hanging on to the leash. The Scottish Deerhound is a very affectionate breed and will generally befriend everyone he meets. He gets along well with other dogs if they are large and don"t trigger his prey drive. He doesn"t make the best alert or guard dog because of his loving nature. Housetraining can take a bit longer with the Scottish Deerhound than with other breeds. Be patient and consistent. Scottish Deerhounds are relatively inactive inside but still need a lot of daily exercise to maintain their huge bodies. They make great jogging companions and enjoy long, long walks. Many people are surprised when their active Scottish Deerhound puppy turns into a couch potato adult. Scottish Deerhounds do very well with older children, but take into account their size and energy level when they"re outdoors. Don"t let a child walk a Scottish Deerhound; he won"t be able to hang onto him if he decides to run after something. Regardless of breed, no dog should ever be left alone with a young child. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The origins of the Scottish Deerhound are lost in the Highland mists. Over the centuries, they"ve been known as Irish wolfdogs, Scottish greyhounds, rough greyhounds, and Highland deerhounds. Whether they were originally used to hunt wolves and then repurposed to hunt the great stags of the Highlands is unknown, but we do know that they were used as far back as the 16th century to hunt and bring down deer. The deerhounds were highly regarded for their courage and gentle dignity. A nobleman condemned to death could purchase his life with a gift of deerhounds. And only a nobleman could do so; no one beneath the rank of earl could lay claim to a deerhound, which was commonly known as the Royal Dog of Scotland. The breed suffered under its restricted ownership, however, and there were many times it came close to extinction, most nearly when the clan system of Scotland collapsed in 1745 after the fateful battle of Culloden during the Jacobite rebellion against English rule. By 1769 the breed was in dire straits. Efforts were made to restore the breed to its original glory in the 1820s by Archibald and Duncan McNeill. The breed made its way to America as well. The first Scottish Deerhound registered by the American Kennel Club was Bonnie Robin in 1886. During World War I, the breed suffered another decline in numbers when many large estates in Scotland and England were broken up. The Scottish Deerhound became a rare breed again, enjoyed only by a select few. Today the Scottish Deerhound is still a fairly uncommon breed, appreciated by those who love sighthounds or have an interest because of their Scottish heritage, but more are coming to learn that this is a versatile breed and an all-around exceptional dog. Today the Scottish Deerhound ranks 135th among the 155 breeds and varieties registered by the American Kennel Club.
The average height for a Scottish Deerhound is 30 to 32 inches for a male and from 28 inches and up for a female. Males weigh 85 to 110 pounds, females 75 to 95 pounds.
The Scottish Deerhound can best be described as chivalrous. He"s gentle yet strong, sensitive yet brave. Loyal, devoted, quiet, dignified, and alert are all terms that apply to this dog. He is courageous in the face of danger but never aggressive. Of course, those characteristics don"t just appear. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, Scottish Deerhounds need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Deerhound puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Scottish Deerhounds are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Deerhounds will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Deerhounds, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA website. Anesthesia Sensitivity: Sighthounds, including Scottish Deerhounds, are sensitive to anesthesia and some other drugs that can lead to the death of the dog if it is administered a regular dose. This sensitivity is believed to be related to the lower percentage of body fat in this breed than other breeds. A regular dose for a dog the size of a Scottish Deerhound is generally too high a dose for the low-body-fat Deerhound. It is important to choose a veterinarian who is familiar with this sensitivity in sighthounds and will be aware of how to dose your Scottish Deerhound. If you cannot find a veterinarian in your town who is knowledgeable about sighthounds, take the time to alert them to this sensitivity to ensure that all anesthetics and drugs are properly administered to your dog. Dilated Cardiomyopathy: Dilated cardiomyopathy occurs when the heart muscle becomes very thin and is unable to contract normally. Because the heart must work harder, it becomes enlarged. Dogs with this disease have an abnormal heart rhythm and show signs of heart failure, including weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, depression, collapse, difficulty breathing, a soft cough, and an enlarged abdomen. There is no cure, but rest, diet, and medication can help for a time. Cystinuria: This genetic disorder is caused by an inability to reabsorb cystine, an amino acid, back into the kidney tubules. This results in the formation of kidney or bladder stones, which can cause life-threatening blockages of the urinary tract, especially in males. It"s identified through an inexpensive urine nitroprusside test for cystine available through the University of Pennsylvania. Medication, diet, and surgery are all options that may help. Dogs with this inherited defect should not be bred. Osteosarcoma: Most often affecting large and giant breeds, osteosarcoma is an aggressive bone cancer. The first sign of osteosarcoma is a lameness in the limb, but the dog will require x-rays to determine the cause. Osteosarcoma is treated aggressively, usually with amputation of the limb and chemotherapy. Factor VII Deficiency: Factor VII deficiency causes excessive and sometimes fatal bleeding from minor wounds and surgery. A DNA test to identify carriers of Factor VII deficiency is available. This genetic abnormality is present at birth and doesn"t change, so a test at any age is accurate for the dog"s entire life. Gastric Torsion (Bloat): Commonly called bloat, this is a life-threatening condition that affects large, deep-chested dogs, especially if they"re fed one large meal a day, eat rapidly, drink large amounts of water rapidly, or exercise vigorously after eating. Bloat occurs when the stomach is distended with gas or air and then twists. The dog is unable to belch or vomit to rid himself of the excess air in his stomach, and blood flow to the heart is impeded. Blood pressure drops and the dog goes into shock. Without immediate medical attention, the dog can die. Suspect bloat if your dog has a distended abdomen, is drooling excessively, and retching without throwing up. He also may be restless, depressed, lethargic, and weak with a rapid heart rate. If you notice these signs, get your dog to the vet as soon as possible. Allergies: Allergies are a common ailment in dogs. There are three main types of allergies: food-based allergies, treated by an elimination process of certain foods from the dog"s diet; contact allergies, caused by a reaction to a topical substance such as bedding, flea powders, dog shampoos, and other chemicals, and treated by removing the cause of the allergy; and inhalant allergies, caused by airborne allergens such as pollen, dust, and mildew. Deerhounds are especially prone to inhalant allergies. Treatment varies according to the cause and may include dietary restrictions, medications, and environmental changes. The appropriate medication for inhalant allergies depends on the severity of the allergy. Ear infections are a common side effect of inhalant allergies. Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism is an abnormally low level of the hormone produced by the thyroid gland. A mild sign of the disease may be infertility. More obvious signs include obesity, mental dullness, drooping of the eyelids, low energy levels, and irregular heat cycles. The dog"s fur becomes coarse and brittle and begins to fall out, while the skin becomes tough and dark. Hypothyroidism can be treated with daily medication, which must continue throughout the dog"s life. A dog receiving daily thyroid treatment can live a full and happy life.
Scottish Deerhounds are calm and sedate. They enjoy a good run or a long walk, but in the main they"re more mellow than manic. They"ll enjoy any game that involves chasing something, although you shouldn"t expect them to bring it back. Because they"re a giant breed, it"s important to introduce puppies to exercise gradually so you don"t damage their still developing bones and joints. Deerhound puppies need plenty of off-leash exercise in a safely fenced area to develop properly. Give them unrestricted access to a large yard so they can get out and run when the mood strikes them. Start them on walks when they"re 8 weeks old and gradually work them up to a mile or more by the time they"re 12 weeks old. By 6 months of age, they"ll be capable and desirous of much longer walks. They should be two years old before they begin any type of jumping or running. Avoid exercising them on hard surfaces such as concrete as much as possible. In the house, they need a puppy-proofed room where they can stretch out and play, yet not do too much damage. When you"re not there to supervise, confine them to it with a tall dog gate or baby gate. Long hours in a crate can damage their joints. Scottish Deerhounds are not the easiest of breeds to train and require patience and understanding. They enjoy the attention they receive when you"re happy with their behavior, but all in all they"d rather do what they like. They are sensitive and won"t respond to harsh treatment. Positive reinforcement with food rewards, praise, and play is the best training technique to use with this breed, and it"s important to be consistent. With a trainer who"s patient and has a sense of humor, they"ve been known to achieve advanced titles in obedience. Leash training is a must with the Scottish Deerhound. Your Scottish Deerhound must be leashed on walks or his prey drive will kick in when he sees a small animal in motion. Once that happens, nothing will matter to him but the chase, no matter how many frantic commands you shout. While it"s breathtaking to see a Deerhound in action, it"s heartbreaking if he becomes injured in the chase, hurts or kills the animal he"s pursuing, or runs in front of a car and is killed. If you want to see him run and chase, get him involved in lure coursing.
Recommended daily amount: 3 to 4 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. If you"re unsure whether your Deerhound"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Deerhound, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The thick coat of a Scottish Deerhound is 3 to 4 inches long, harsh and wiry, meant to protect the dog as he hunted the rough terrain of the Scottish Highlands. In contrast, the hair on the head, belly, and breast is usually quite soft. A slight fringe of hair — not enough to be called feathering — adorns the backs of the legs. Climate affects the texture of the coat, and in the United States Deerhounds commonly have a coat that is a mix of wiry and silky hair. No self-respecting Deerhound has a woolly coat, however, which doesn"t shed dirt the way the wiry coat does. The typical Deerhound wears a coat of dark blue-gray, but the breed standard — a written description of how a breed should look — says he also comes in dark gray, brindle, light gray, red fawn, sandy red, or yellow. The latter three colors are especially attractive when the dog has a black muzzle and ears, but it"s unlikely you"ll ever see it. Most Deerhounds come in only three colors: gray, gray, and gray. Once in a while you"ll see a bit of white on the chest or toes, but the less white the better. Scottish Deerhounds shed consistently throughout the year. Brush the coat with a wire slicker brush once or twice a week to remove dead hair, stimulate the circulation, and distribute natural skin oils. Always brush in the direction the hair grows. Give a final going over with a metal comb — known as a greyhound comb — to be sure you haven"t missed any tangles. You can also use the comb on the softer belly, chest, and facial hair. Using your fingers, gently pluck any long or light-colored hairs from the ears until they look velvety black. Bathe your Deerhound as needed to remove any dust, dirt, or doggy odor that"s developed. A bath will temporarily make his coat feel soft, but it will regain its crisp feel in a few days. With regular brushing, he really shouldn"t need a bath more than a couple of times a year unless you"re showing him. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Deerhound"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails regularly if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the dog"s feet in good condition and keep your legs from getting scratched when your Deerhound enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. Because your Deerhound has floppy ears, you should check and clean them weekly to prevent ear infections. Gently wipe out the ear — only the part you can see! — with a cotton ball moistened with a cleaning solution recommended by your veterinarian. Never stick cotton swabs or anything else into the ear canal or you might damage it. Your Deerhound may have an ear infection if the inside of the ear smells bad, looks red or seems tender, or he frequently shakes his head or scratches at his ear. Begin accustoming your Deerhound to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult — essential with a dog this size. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Deerhounds can get along with children, but they"re not really a playmate kind of dog, being more into body slams than playing fetch. They"re best suited to homes with older children who understand how to interact with dogs. Deerhounds aren"t best pleased by the poking, prodding, and pulling of toddlers and will generally stalk off rather than put up with it. Their size also makes them unsuited to life with small children; they can easily knock them over without meaning to. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child. While your Deerhound may learn to live peaceably with small dogs or cats indoors, if he sees them running around outdoors it can be a different story.
No information found

Scottish Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.7

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 1,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.35

Dog Breed Group:  Terrier DogsHeight:  Up to 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  18 to 22 poundsLife Span:  11 to 13 years
As the gruff friend of an animated cocker spaniel, who portrayed loyalty and protectiveness when he told an equally animated Tramp to take a walk without the Lady, the Scottish Terrier Jock evoked an image that generations of children have enjoyed. Disney"s Lady and the Tramp is a time-cherished animated movie that caused many people to fall in love with the Scottie. Stoic and aristocratic, he is easily recognized and is plastered on everything that can be decorated, including clothing, photographs, pictures, cards, and ornaments.This short-legged wonder was originally bred to hunt prey such as badgers and foxes, and he has therefore developed into a self-directed and opinionated companion. His independence and intelligence have drawn many dog lovers to the breed, but others find the Scottie"s aloofness less than endearing. He doesn"t naturally trust strangers (so he needs proper socialization as a puppy), and he"ll take his own sweet time figuring out a situation or person. But if he decides to befriend you, it will be for life. Too smart to forget anything, the Scottie is also brave and loyal.He likes all living arrangements but needs a short daily walk if you"re in an apartment. He loves family companionship and is gentle and playful with children, and he"s considerate of the elderly. Although he loves youngsters, he"s not suited for homes with babies and toddlers, because it"s the Scottie"s nature to stand up for himself when prodded and pulled. That can translate into a bite.A Scottie enjoys digging holes throughout your backyard, and he doesn"t grasp that you might not like it. He will chase "prey" out of yards right into traffic, so a fence is a necessity (those electronic ones won"t cut it; he"ll just charge right through them). He"ll rid your yard of any squirrels or other vermin.Although many terriers are known as yappy, the Scottish Terrier is not. His style is a loud alert bark. Some Scotties know the difference between steps made by a friend or steps made by a stranger, only giving the alert if it"s the latter.Scottish Terriers can be difficult to train because they were bred to work apart from their owner, without needing direction. A Scottie won"t stop and ask you what to do next but will do it on his own. That"s why Scotties generally don"t score high in obedience rallies (they"re better suited to agility), although there are exceptions. This isn"t to say that he"s untrainable, but rather that his temperament is suited to working separately from his owners, as he often sets his own course. He doesn"t do well with aggressive training, as he has a kind heart that can be broken easily if he perceives mistreatment. He thrives on positive reinforcement.Today the Scottish Terrier enjoys the title of family dog, but he is in essence a working dog and is much happier with a job to do, even if it"s just simple tricks. Historically, the Scottie was bred by farmers to help them manage vermin problems. He would follow prey, such as badgers, foxes, and other vermin, right into their burrows and then try to dig them out. Such breeds of dogs are known as Earth dogs. Scottish Terriers do well in earthdog trials, which are a simulated hunt.The breed"s stubbornness often translates into bravery. In the nineteenth century a military man, George the fourth Earl of Dumbarton, had a famous pack of Scotties. These dogs were so brave in battle that they were nicknamed "diehards." George"s regiment, the Royal Scots, were called "Dumbarton"s Diehards" after the dogs. Today that bravery has a different application in home protection, but the nature of it hasn"t changed.There are Scottish Terriers that can be hardheaded, serious, energetic, and introverted — and some that can be sweet, playful, placid, and tolerant of everyone. They have been loved by many, including Shirley Temple, Franklin Roosevelt, and George W. Bush; even Hitler got two Scottish Terriers for his fiancé, Eva Braun.There is no denying that this brave and jaunty little aristocrat of the dog world is loved, respected, and adored for all his idiosyncrasies. Having a dog that is more partner than servant can be a wonderful experience — but it"s not for everyone. If you prefer a dog that is eager to please, think twice about living with a Scottish Terrier.
Originally bred for hunting and following prey to ground, the Scottish Terrier is designed to dig, and he still has that drive today. It"s better to find a designated digging area in your backyard then fight an active and natural instinct. Scottish Terriers tend to be aloof with strangers and can be aggressive to other dogs if they are not properly socialized when young. Scotties are not low-energy small dogs. They were bred as working dogs and have lots of drive and intelligence that needs to be channelled. They need daily moderate exercise and stimulation. If you"re looking for a dog that"s happier sitting at your side then digging holes in your backyard, a Scottie might not be for you. Although Scottish Terriers enjoy exercise, they are not recommended as jogging companions. With his short legs, a short walk around your block can feel like a long-distance marathon to the Scottish Terrier. Behind German Shepherds and Rottweilers, Scotties have been ranked third in alarm barking. They will bark at strangers and are not the ideal pet in a dwelling or area that has noise rules. A Scottie should have a physical fence around his yard, not an electronic one. It keeps him from chasing cats, squirrels, bikes, and other moving objects out onto the street. He should be leashed on walks, because with his chase instinct, he"s likely to run off after an animal or smell. The Scottie isn"t suited for homes with young infants and toddlers. He"s been known to defend himself against unwanted pulling and prodding. He sheds only lightly but requires significant grooming. The coat takes time to maintain, with grooming weekly or daily in the case of show dogs. It should be clipped several times a year. In terms of his size and exercise needs, the Scottie is adaptable to various types of dwellings, including apartments. To get a healthy pet, never buy a puppy from a backyard breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Find a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs for genetic health conditions and good temperaments.
Despite being an old breed, the Scottish Terrier"s history is somewhat obscure and undocumented. The Scottie"s origin is believed to date back to a dog that was described by Pliny the Elder in 55 B.C. When the Romans invaded Britain, he wrote, "They found, much to their surprise, small dogs that would follow their quarry to the ground." The Romans called the dogs terrarii, which means "workers of the earth" and is derived from terra, the Latin word for earth. The Scottish Terrier was a hunter and still hunts by instinct today.The Old Scotch Terrier is believed to be one of the oldest breeds in Scotland and the foundation dog for all of today"s terrier breeds. The breed is extinct today but was described as a stable worker with strength, courage, and stamina, who could breach his quarry"s rocky dens. The breed was a black or sandy-colored dog that was low in stature, strong, with long hair and small, half-prick ears.If we fast-forward from the first few centuries to 1436, we find a description, in Don Leslie"s book A History of Scotland, of a small dog similar in form to the Scottish Terrier. By the early 1800s, many writers wrote of two separate terrier breeds in Britain, the Scottish Terrier (distinguished by its rough hair) and the English Terrier (identified by its smooth hair).Somewhat earlier, in the seventeenth century, James I of England sent several dogs to France as a present to the French monarch. Those dogs are believed to have been foundation dogs for the modern Scottish Terrier. The king"s love of the breed helped to increase its popularity, which rose over the next three centuries.During the 1800s, Scotland had many terriers. By the end of the century, the dogs had been separated into two different groups, the Dandie Dinmont Terriers and the Skye Terriers (although the latter was a fairly generic name given to all terriers that came from the Isle of Skye). The Scottish Terrier was grouped under the Skye Terriers and shown under that class in the show ring until the 1870s. At that time, the standard for the Scottish Terrier was written and, by the end of the nineteenth century, the Skye Terriers had been divided into the four different breeds we know today: the Scottish Terrier, Skye Terrier, West Highland White Terrier, and the Cairn Terrier.
The Scottish Terrier is a small, short-legged dog with a compact and sturdy build. The average height is 10 inches. The weight ranges from 19 to 22 pounds for a male and 18 to 21 pounds for a female.
The Scottish Terrier"s character and personality are a bit like the lonely moors of his homeland. He"s a serious guy, not particularly jolly, and he approves of dignity and reserve. He"s opinionated, as well as independent and smart as a whip. He tends to be aloof (but not toward his family). A Scottie doesn"t respond much to people who oooh and ahh over him while he"s out and about. He"s slow to accept anyone outside the family, but his devotion to his own people is legendary. He needs to live inside the house, because companionship is his mainstay. Sensitive to praise and anger, he"s good at adapting to the changing moods of a household. When you"re quiet, he"ll be quiet (unless he sees a squirrel); when you"re ready for a walk, he"ll bound outdoors with you.Remember his background: he"s a true terrier. If another dog provokes him, he"ll fight to the end. If other dogs leave him alone, he leaves them alone.It"s important, actually critical, to take your Scottie to socialization classes starting when he"s a puppy. Inviting friends and family over or going to busy places with him while he"s young will tamp down his general distrust of strangers. Left unchecked, that can translate into aggression when the dog is an adult — so start training your Scottie puppy from the moment you bring him home.
Scottish Terriers are generally healthy, but like all breeds of dogs, they"re prone to certain conditions and diseases. Scottie cramp is a common disorder in Scottish Terriers and is considered harmless to the breed. The symptoms of Scottie cramp occur only when the dog is stressed or overstimulated, such as during exercise, mating, or fights. The dog will appear normal at rest but will exhibit an arching of the spine, overflexing of the rear legs, the front legs may move outward from side to side, and the dog may show a goose-stepping gait. Some dogs may temporarily loose their ability to walk or run, and those who are severely affected may have trouble walking or running when stressed. This is not a progressive disease, and Scottish Terriers live long and healthy lives with this disorder. Treatment is not necessary, but in some severe cases it has been treated with vitamin E, diazepam, or Prozac. Von Willebrand"s disease is an inherited blood disorder that interferes with the blood"s ability to clot. The main symptom is excessive bleeding after an injury or surgery. Other symptoms include nosebleeds, bleeding gums, or bleeding in the stomach or intestines. There is no cure, and a blood transfusion from the blood of normal dogs is currently the only treatment. Research is underway for new treatments, including medication. Most dogs with von Willebrand"s disease can lead normal lives. A vet can test your dog for the condition when he"s a puppy. Dogs with this condition should not be bred. Craniomandibular osteopathy affects several skull bones. While a puppy is growing, the skull bones become irregularly enlarged. The symptoms usually appear between four and eight months of age. Often the puppy"s jaw and glands will become swollen, and he won"t be able to open his mouth. He"ll drool, have a fluctuating fever every couple of weeks, and in some cases the chewing muscles may atrophy. The cause is unknown but believed to be hereditary. There is no treatment, but anti-inflammatories and pain relievers ease the discomfort. Proper nutrition is necessary, and in severe cases a feeding tube may be needed. The irregular bone growth slows and typically stops by the time the puppy becomes a year old. The lesions can regress, but a few dogs have permanent problems with using the jaw and eating. In some cases, there can be a permanent inability to move the jaw; surgery can partially correct that. Patellar luxation is a common problem in small dogs, including Scotties. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation refers to dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). In patellar luxation, the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling. The treatment is surgery.
The Scottie is active and can become destructive when bored and underexercised. He loves to go for walks, but running is not part of his plan for the day. He has to be leashed for walks because he is a hunter, after all, and he will see the squirrel but not the car.He likes water but can"t swim, and that"s a bad conflict. He"ll sink like a stone because of his short legs and heavy body. Scotties and uncovered swimming pools are a disaster waiting to happen, which is why Scottie Rescue groups prefer not to place them in homes with pools.Crate training benefits every dog and is a kind way to ensure that your Scottie doesn"t have accidents in the house or get into things he shouldn"t. A crate is also a place where he can retreat for a nap. Crate training at a young age will help your Scottie accept confinement if he ever needs to be boarded or hospitalized. Never stick your Scottie in a crate all day long, however. Scotties are people dogs, and they aren"t meant to spend their lives locked up in a crate or kennel.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 1.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day.Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference--the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.For more on feeding your Scottish, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
While many people think of them as black, Scottish Terriers can also be grey or steel, brindle, or wheaten. The wheaten ones look a bit like West Highland White Terriers, which isn"t surprising given their intertwined history.The Scottish Terrier has two coats. The topcoat, or overcoat, should be hard and wiry; the bottom coat, or undercoat, should be soft and dense. Because his hair just keeps growing, he doesn"t shed as much as short-coated breeds. Scotty skin dries out quickly, so don"t bathe until necessary.Many believe that the Scottish Terrier is easy to maintain, but in reality the breed needs a great deal of grooming. Set up a grooming table to bring the dog up to your level if that makes it easier for you. The coat needs to be groomed weekly for a pet and daily for a show dog.A variety of tools are used for brushing a Scottish Terrier: a stiff brush, a hound glove, a wide-toothed comb for the beard, and scissors for trimming. Show dogs are groomed with a technique called stripping, in which loose hairs are pulled out. It can be done with stripping knives or by hand, and the hair should always be stripped with the lay of the hair.Your Scottish Terrier should be clipped every two months if your aim is to keep his hair short; you can do it yourself or go to a groomer. If you are keeping the hair long, trim several times a year. A Scottish Terrier whose coat gets clipped regularly has softer hair (not preferred in the breed standard) and a duller coat color. If you plan to show your Scottie in conformation, avoid clipping as it is difficult to get the hair back into the proper standard condition.Scotties have bad reactions to fleas and have been known to chew themselves bald. Brushing regularly and using a flea comb are good ideas, combined with today"s preventives. Begin accustoming your Scottie to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Trim nails regularly if he doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long.Brush your Scottie"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Scottish Terriers have large teeth that are close together, which is why his teeth should be cleaned frequently. If the teeth aren"t cleaned, the dog can suffer from tooth decay and gum disease.Start grooming when your dog is young, and make it a positive experience filled with praise and rewards to lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Ears should smell good, without too much wax or gunk inside, and eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
He"s so good with children that he"s been called a nanny — but, like any terrier, the Scottie will react poorly to his tail or hair being pulled, and he"s not well suited to the noise and movements of toddlers and very young children. But with well-behaved children, he"s a champion and he will appoint himself their guardian.A true terrier, he can be aggressive with other dogs, particularly those of the same sex. Although he"s not a sparring dog, if he wants to start a fight or responds to another dog"s challenge, it can be a real problem. He"s fine with those dogs he"s been raised with.Because he"s a hunter, he is not well suited to smaller pets. He may or may not tolerate a cat, but he"s definitely bad news around small mammals such as hamsters or rats. To him, they"re fast-food snacks. It"s hardwired in the Scottie to go after vermin — it"s not a choice. Set him up for success by not putting him in a situation where he has to fight his own nature, because he won"t.
No information found

Sealyham Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 2,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.3

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.14

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 3,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.15

Dog Breed Group:  Mixed Breed DogsHeight:  10 to 15 inchesWeight:  7 to 38 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Pomsky is a designer breed of dog that is a hybrid of the Pomeranian and the Siberian Husky. Adorable Pomsky puppies have attracted a lot of attention recently and made them one of the most popular breeds of 2017. Due to the size difference of the parent dogs, Pomskies are almost always bred by artificial insemination, as natural breeding would be unsafe. This is an expensive process, which means that breeders charge a lot of money for Pomskies.The desire for Pomskies only encourages breeders to meet demand, leaving dogs in shelters without homes. Additionally, many people buy Pomskies because they are cute puppies, but they find themselves unprepared for the responsibility of owning a dog, especially one with the Pomsky"s specific needs. Backyard breeders also take advantage of Pomsky mania by cranking out puppies and selling them cheaply to buyers without guaranteeing health or breed purity. Be wary of those offering cheap or free Pomsky puppies and consider adopting from a shelter or rescue instead. Several Pomskies have ended up in shelters or with rescues because people give them up when they realize they aren"t ready to meet a Pomsky"s needs, so it shouldn"t be too long before you find one available for adoption.
The Pomsky"s thick coat makes it more tolerant of cold weather than most other kinds of lap dogs. Pomskies are highly adaptable, don"t have large space requirements, and only have moderate exercise needs, making them good apartment dogs. The coat of the breed comes in a variety of colors, just like its parent breeds. Pomskies are vocal dogs that tend to be yappy if they aren"t properly trained. Socialization with other dogs and people is important, especially at an early age. Pomskies are very trainable, but may inherit some stubbornness from the Siberian Husky, so they are best suited for experienced dog owners.
The history of the Pomsky dog breed isn"t a long one, mostly because the breed was recently designed and created through artificial insemination. Since the breed is so new, most standards of how it should look or traits that it should have still haven"t been established. It will take several more years and generations of dogs before the breed is recognized and standards are formed. The Pomsky Club of America is one group that is working to get the breed officially recognized, though dogs will have to be bred for specific, consistent traits before this can happen. At this time, Pomskies can vary greatly in looks and temperament, even within the same litter, so breed standards aren"t likely to come any time soon.If you are interested in getting a Pomsky, there is no reason you have to rely on a breeder of designer dogs. Keep an eye on shelters near you, and you can take a look at Pomeranian and Siberian Husky rescue groups, as they sometimes try to find homes for mixes of those breeds. You can also check our searchable database of adoptable dogs to find a breed you like. Even if you don"t see exactly what you"re looking for, there are plenty of other dogs for you to fall in love with.
The Pomsky is a small to mid-sized dog that falls somewhere between the breed"s Pomeranian and Siberian Husky parents in size. There is some variation in size, as breed standards haven"t been firmly established, but it"s fairly safe to assume that a Pomsky won"t be much heavier than 38 pounds at most when it is full-grown, and that"s on the higher end of Pomsky weight.
The Pomsky is a bit of a comedian and tends to know that its cute antics will be met with plenty of adoration from human onlookers. They are highly adaptable to change, and their moderate exercise needs make them fairly suited to apartment living, so long as they get at least one long walk per day. That said, they tend to inherit their Husky parents" chatty howling and whining tendencies along with their Pomeranian parents" penchant for yapping. This makes them very vocal dogs that may get on the neighbors" nerves. Also, they shed a ton, so be prepared to find hair everywhere and have some lint rollers and a vacuum cleaner at the ready.Pomskies tend to latch on to one favorite family member, though they may get along with all humans in the household. Socialization is very important and should begin at an early age. Pomskies can be nervous around strangers if they haven"t been properly socialized.
Pomskies can develop the common health problems of both its Husky and Pomeranian parents. They are genetically predisposed to conditions like allergies, hip dysplasia, dislocated knees (luxating patellas), eye problems, epilepsy, heart disease, collapsing trachea, and skin problems among other issues. They are also especially prone to dental issues, so it is important to keep up with regular teeth cleanings.
Pomskies have moderate exercise needs that should be satisfied with at least one good walk per day. They can have high energy, and may need some extra play sessions before they relax.Their thick coat makes Pomskies suitable to cold weather, so be prepared to bundle up and take them outdoors all year long. They also do well with toys that stimulate them mentally, as Pomskies are intelligent dogs that may become bored if they aren"t challenged.Training can be tough, as some Pomskies inherit stubbornness from the Siberian Husky, but they should be fine with learning new things if you provide them with food motivators and plenty of praise.
Pomskies are high energy dogs and require a diet that will meet their needs. Because breed standards haven"t been established, it is difficult to say for sure what individual dogs will need to eat. It is best to ask your veterinarian or a pet nutritionist about your specific dog"s nutritional requirements. Typically, they"ll need a diet suitable for a small to mid-sized dog.
Pomskies have a soft, fluffy double coat that requires lots of brushing to maintain. The thick coat keeps them very comfortable in cold temperatures. Pomskies tend to shed a lot, and although brushing helps, you can still expect to find hair around the home. Coat colors vary, much like the breed"s Pomeranian and Husky parents. They come in grey and white, brown or reddish brown, blue, pure white, and more. Nails should be trimmed every few weeks and teeth should be brushed daily, as the breed is prone to dental problems.
Pomskies have a soft, fluffy double coat that requires lots of brushing to maintain. The thick coat keeps them very comfortable in cold temperatures. Pomskies tend to shed a lot, and although brushing helps, you can still expect to find hair around the home. Coat colors vary, much like the breed"s Pomeranian and Husky parents. They come in grey and white, brown or reddish brown, blue, pure white, and more. Nails should be trimmed every few weeks and teeth should be brushed daily, as the breed is prone to dental problems.
Pomskies are often wary of small children who may not be properly trained on how to handle animals, and they can nip if they feel uncomfortable or threatened. They can get along with other dogs if they are socialized, especially if they have been raised with them, though the high prey drive they inherit from the Husky means they might like to give chase to smaller animals like cats. It is best to socialize them early, especially if you plan to have them in a household with children or other pets.
Pomskies are often wary of small children who may not be properly trained on how to handle animals, and they can nip if they feel uncomfortable or threatened. They can get along with other dogs if they are socialized, especially if they have been raised with them, though the high prey drive they inherit from the Husky means they might like to give chase to smaller animals like cats. It is best to socialize them early, especially if you plan to have them in a household with children or other pets.
No information found

Shetland Sheepdog
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 2,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.17

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.8

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 5,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.38

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 1,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.27

Dog Breed Group:  Herding DogsHeight:  1 foot, 1 inch to 1 foot, 4 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  Starts at 20 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The small, active Shetland Sheepdog (nicknamed the Sheltie) was once a Scottish farmer"s best friend: sounding the alarm when anyone approached the property, barking at birds and other animals to shoo them from the garden, and later, with crosses to Scottish herding dogs, keeping the sheep flocks in line. While at first glance they look like a smaller version of the Rough Collie, the two are distinctly different breeds. Shelties are loving companions for all members of the family, including the kids, but they can be reserved or even shy around strangers. Because of their protective nature, they"re quick to bark if they sense that anything"s amiss in their territory. Training is essential to keep this trait from becoming a nuisance. On the upside, they make excellent watchdogs. You just have to teach them some discrimination. Ask any Sheltie owner, and they"ll probably tell you how smart their dog is. According to Dr. Stanley Coren, an animal intelligence expert, that"s more than pride of ownership talking. In his studies of the intelligence of 132 different dog breeds, Shelties ranked sixth in intelligence by being able to understand a new command after being told it fewer than five times on average, and obeying commands the first time they were given at least 95 percent of the time. Because of their intelligence, willingness to please, and athletic ability, Shelties excel at performance events. In their size group, Shelties typically dominate the field in agility. They"re also exceptionally good in competitive obedience, flyball, tracking, and herding. In fact, Shelties have a reputation for being a little too smart for their own good. This is a breed that needs a job. Without plenty of mental stimulation, Shelties quickly become bored and will invent their own entertainment, which may or may not be to their people"s liking. Shelties retain a strong herding instinct. You"ll find that your Sheltie will enthusiastically chase and try to "herd" squirrels, rabbits, and children, running around them, barking, and nipping. Shelty owners should discourage this habit, especially with children, because it can lead to biting. Never let your Sheltie herd unless it"s in a herding class with appropriate subjects such as ducks or sheep. Shelties are relatively inactive indoors and can handle apartment living if they"re walked daily and aren"t recreational barkers. Otherwise, they need a fenced yard where they can play safely and be prevented from seeking out animals, people, or cars to "herd." Shelties have a long, dense, furry coat and shed heavily. Lots of people don"t realize just how much loose fur they"re letting themselves in for, and many Shelties are given up to rescue groups every year because they shed. Be sure that you and your vacuum cleaner can handle that much hair. Shelties can be a good choice for a working person as they"ll stay home alone contentedly, provided they get their fair share of attention when their people are home. They thrive in an environment where they"re given companionship, playtime, training, and quiet patting. Your love they"ll return tenfold.
Many Shelties are very vocal, and they have a loud, piercing bark. To keep your relations with neighbors friendly, it"s important to train your Sheltie at an early age to stop barking on command. Expect your Sheltie to shed profusely in the spring, and sometimes at other times in the year. Shelties are extremely intelligent and like to have a job to do. They can be stubborn, however. Make training fun and allow them time to make up their own minds to do what you want them to do. Shelties have a lot of energy and need to be able to run. They thrive on activities such as agility and flyball, where they get both mental and physical exercise. Shelties have been popular family dogs for many years. Because there"s a big demand for puppies, there are many poorly bred Shelties for sale. If you"re looking for a puppy, make sure you find a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees.
The Sheltie hails from the rugged Shetland Islands, which lie between Scotland and Norway, about 50 miles north of Scotland and a bit south of the Arctic Circle. These islands are also home to other small breeds of animals, such as Shetland Ponies and Shetland Sheep. For many years, the Shetland Sheepdog was called the Toonie, taken from the Norwegian word for farm. Farmers bred the dogs, crossing the Border Collie with smaller dogs, to herd and protect their flocks of Shetland Sheep. Some speculate that one of the tasks of Shetland Sheepdogs was to protect the small sheep from birds. Indeed, many of today"s Shelties seem to have a passion for chasing birds, and some even try to chase airplanes and helicopters flying overhead. In the early 1800s, the Sheltie was brought to England and Scotland, where he was described as a miniature Collie. On the Shetland Islands, the farmers started breeding their small Shelties to be even smaller and fluffier, so they could sell them to visitors to the islands. It"s rumored that a Prince Charles Spaniel (a variety of English Toy Spaniel) and some Pomeranian dogs, left on the island by tourists, were crossed with the native sheepdogs. There was so much crossbreeding that by the end of the 19th century, islanders realized that the original type of dog was disappearing. There was much dissension about what the original dog had looked like, however, and how to get back to it. Some breeders believed they needed to crossbreed with Collies in order to regain the original type, some felt that they should breed only the existing Shelties who were closest to the original type, and others continued to crossbreed indiscriminately with other breeds to develop small, pretty pets. Shelties of all three types were entered in dog shows in the early 20th century, up to World War I. In 1909, England"s Kennel Club recognized the breed. Altogether, 28 Shelties were registered that year as Shetland Collies (rough). Four of them still appear in the pedigrees of many modern champion Shelties: two males named Lerwick Tim and Trim and two females named Inverness Topsy and Inga. The first Sheltie to be registered by the American Kennel Club was Lord Scott in 1911. Collie breeders in England were unhappy about the name of the breed, however, and protested to the Kennel Club. This led to the change of the name to Shetland Sheepdog. The Shetland Sheepdog stirred up controversy both in Great Britain and the United States for many years, with rumors of crossbreeding and long-running disagreements about what the breed should look like. As a consequence, many Shetland Sheepdog clubs were formed to support the different viewpoints. Finally, in 1930 the Scottish and English Clubs got together and agreed that the dog "should resemble a collie (rough) in miniature." U.S. breeders imported Shelties from England until the 1950"s, but by that time, American and British Shelties had begun to diverge greatly in type and size. Today, almost all Shetland Sheepdogs in the U.S. are descended from dogs that were imported from England between World Wars I and II. As the breed became more well known, its numbers increased in the U.S. In the 1970s, their popularity exploded and Shelties appeared on the American Kennel Club"s list of the ten most popular dogs in 12 of the next 15 years, peaking in the early 1990s. Today the Sheltie ranks 20th in popularity among the 155 breeds and varieties registered by the American Kennel Club. And how is the Sheltie faring in his native Shetland Islands? Ironically, he"s fairly rare in his rugged homeland — the breed has been replaced by the Border Collie.
The Shetland Sheepdog stands between 13 and 16 inches tall at the shoulder, but it"s not unusual for them to be over- or undersize. A typical Sheltie weighs about 22 pounds, but a large one can weigh as much as 35 or 40 pounds.
The Sheltie is intensely loyal, gentle, and sensitive. There"s a wide range of personalities in the breed, from outgoing and boisterous to calm and sedate to shy or retiring. It"s normal for Shelties to be reserved with strangers, but steer clear of dogs that seem overly timid or nervous. If you"re choosing a puppy, it"s fine if they don"t always come right up to a stranger, but they should be happily curious and ready to make friends with someone who sits down on the floor with them. Whatever their personality, Shelties prefer to be with their people at all times and will follow them from room to room during the course of the day. Like all dogs, Shelties need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Sheltie puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Shelties are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Shelties will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Shelties, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips, thyroid, and von Willebrand"s disease and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that the eyes are normal. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following problems are not common in the breed, but they may occur: Hypothyroidism occurs when the body can"t maintain sufficient levels of thyroid hormones. Signs include weight gain, thinning coat, dry skin, slow heart rate, and sensitivity to cold. As hypothyroidism is a progressive condition, if you notice any of these signs, have your dog checked by your vet. Hypothyroidism is easily managed with daily medication, which must continue throughout the dog"s life. Because this is a disease of middle age, asking the breeder about the thyroid status of your puppy"s grandparents may give you a better idea of whether the problem occurs in the breeder"s lines. Collie Eye Anomaly (CEA) is an inherited condition that can lead to blindness in some dogs. It usually occurs by the time the dog is 2 years old and can be diagnosed by a veterinary ophthalmologist. Usually both eyes are affected, but not necessarily to the same degree. Those dogs with minor anomaly make fine pets and usually do not lose their eyesight. Those that are more severely affected may lose their eyesight within a few years of diagnosis. There is no treatment for CEA, but blind dogs can get around very well using their other senses. It is important to remember that this condition is a genetic abnormality, and your breeder should be notified if your puppy has the condition. It is also important to spay or neuter your dog to prevent the gene from being passed to a new generation of puppies. von Willebrand"s Disease is an inherited blood disorder caused by a deficiency in clotting factor VIII antigen (von Willebrand factor). The primary sign is excessive bleeding after an injury or surgery. Other signs, such as nosebleeds, bleeding gums, or bleeding in the stomach or intestines, may also be present. Most dogs with von Willebrand"s disease lead normal lives, however. If you feel this is a concern, your vet can perform tests to determine if your dog has it or not. Canine hip dysplasia is a condition in which the femur doesn"t fit snugly into the pelvic socket of the hip joint. Hip dysplasia can exist with or without clinical signs. Some dogs exhibit pain and lameness on one or both rear legs. As the dog ages, arthritis can develop. Screening for hip dysplasia can either be done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) or by using the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs that have hip dysplasia shouldn"t be bred. Ask the breeder from whom you get a puppy for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and found to be free of problems. If your dog displays signs of hip dysplasia, talk to your vet. Medication or surgery can help. Dermatomyositis is an inherited disorder that can cause skin lesions and, in severe cases, affect the muscles. DM primarily affects Collies and Shetland Sheepdogs, although dogs in other breeds have been diagnosed. Some dogs never show any signs of the disease, but pass it along to their offspring. Signs are varied. Skin lesions may appear on the head, ears and front legs. There may be extensive hair loss and scarring on the face and ears, as well as on the legs and the tip of the tail. The only way to diagnose DM is through a skin punch biopsy evaluated by a dermapathologist. There"s no test yet for dermatomyositis, which is thought to be one gene with variable expression, meaning that a dog can carry it without showing signs of it.
Although Shelties were bred to withstand harsh weather conditions, they love their people and should live indoors with them as part of the family. While they can be relatively inactive indoors, Shelties were bred to be working farm dogs and need ample exercise. They enjoy going for walks, playing fetch with the kids, and running around the dining room table. Afterward, they"ll help you hold down the sofa. Because of their small size, Shelties can do well in an apartment if their people are committed to providing daily walks and playtime, as well as training them not to bark incessantly. This requires finesse. Shelties can have their feelings easily hurt by harsh treatment. Instead of yelling at your Sheltie for barking, acknowledge his alert ("Thanks for telling me about the squirrel in the yard") and give a verbal reprimand only if he continues barking. In general, Shelties respond best to positive reinforcement such as praise, play, and food rewards. Try to keep training interesting for your dog. Shelties can become bored easily, and see no point in repeating an exercise multiple times if it was done correctly the first time.
Recommended daily amount: 3/4 to 2 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Sheltie in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Sheltie, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Shelties have a double coat. The undercoat is short and dense, causing the longer, harsher topcoat to stand out from the body. The hair on the head, ears, and feet is smooth, but the mane and frill (the hair around the neck and on the forechest) are abundant. The legs and tail are furry as well. You"ll see three basic colors in the breed, all with varying amounts of white and/or tan markings: Sable, ranging from golden to mahogany Black Blue Merle (blue-gray with black) A Sheltie who"s more than 50 percent white or who has a brindle coat won"t do for the show ring, but his color doesn"t affect his ability to be a great companion. The Shetland Sheepdog"s beautiful coat requires, at a minimum, a thorough weekly brushing with a pin brush. Be sure to get right down to the skin, and never brush a dry coat. Use a spray bottle to mist it as you go to prevent damage to the hair. Pay special attention to the fine hair behind the ears, which tends to tangle. If you find a mat in this area early, it can usually be brushed out with a small slicker brush. Your Sheltie will need extra brushing during shedding season. Males and spayed females generally shed once a year, while unspayed females shed twice a year, a couple of months after each estrus period. A proper Sheltie coat — a harsh outer coat and soft undercoat — sheds dirt and repels water, so Shelties need baths only when they get really dirty, which varies from dog to dog. Trim nails once or twice a month. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and protect your shins from getting scratched when your Sheltie enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. Dental hygiene is also important. Brush your Sheltie"s teeth at least two or three times a week to keep his breath fresh and prevent tartar buildup and periodontal disease. Daily brushing is even better. Start grooming your Sheltie when he"s a puppy to get him used to it. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Shelties are excellent family companions, especially when they"re raised with children who know how to handle dogs respectfully. As with any dog, always teach children how to approach and touch dogs. Supervise all interactions between dogs and young kids to prevent biting or ear pulling from either party. Never leave dogs and young children alone together. When it comes to other dogs, Shelties have a definite preference for their own kind, even if they don"t live with other Shelties. On first introduction, they seem to recognize other Shelties as kindred spirits and are usually immediately friendly and willing to play. They tend to be standoffish with new dogs of other breeds, however. They can get along with cats, once the cat puts the Sheltie in his place for trying to herd him.
No information found

Shiba Inu
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 5,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 4]
Grouping total: 4.0

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 1,
"General Health" : 2,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.31

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 4,
"Prey Drive" : 2,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.36

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.46

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  From 1 foot, 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  45 to 70 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
Although today"s Poodles seem to epitomize a life of leisure and luxury, make no mistake: These are real dogs bred to do real jobs. Although it hardly seems possible when you look at a primped-up Poodle in the show ring, the breed was originally a water retriever, a job that requires jumping in the water to fetch waterfowl for hunters. In fact, the English name poodle is derived from the German word pudel, or pudelin, which means to splash in the water. And in France, Poodles are called Caniche, a name derived from chien canard, meaning duck dog. Even the elaborate coat styling that the breed"s known for once had a practical purpose: trimmed areas lightened the weight of the dog"s coat and wouldn"t snag on underwater debris, while long hair around the joints and vital organs protected the dog from the cold water. There are three sizes of Poodle, all considered part of the same breed: going from smallest to largest, these are the Toy, the Miniature, and the Standard. The Standard is probably the oldest of the three varieties, and some still carry on the Poodle tradition of working as a water retriever. No matter the size, Poodles are renowned for a playful but dignified personality and keen intelligence. When it comes to training, this is an "A" student, and the Poodle excels at performance sports such as obedience, agility, and hunt tests. Despite his regal air, the Poodle is no snob. These are people-friendly dogs who want to stay close to their families — they get lonely when left by themselves for long periods — and are always up for a good game.
If you spoil your Poodle and don"t train him, he"s likely to conclude that he"s the alpha dog of the family. This is especially common among the smaller varieties — Miniature and Toy Poodles — who are more likely to be coddled and untrained. Teach your dog good canine manners, and then insist that he use them; it shows him that you"re the leader of the pack. Because of their intelligence and playful nature, obedience training is essential to keep your Poodle"s mind active. A Poodle who is thinking and learning isn"t bored, and therefore won"t find destructive ways to occupy himself. The Poodle coat needs a lot of upkeep to stay beautiful and healthy. Most Poodle owners take their dogs to a professional groomer every three to six weeks. If you want to save money on grooming expenses, you can learn to do it yourself, but it takes time and effort. Poodles have weepy eyes that can stain the surrounding hair. To cut down on stains, gently wipe down the face daily with an alcohol-free pet wipe or washcloth dipped in warm water. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Poodle is one of the oldest breeds developed especially for hunting waterfowl. Most historians agree that the Poodle originated in Germany, but developed into his own distinct breed in France. Many believe that the breed is the result of crosses between several European water dogs, including Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Hungarian, and Russian water dogs. Other historians think that one of the Poodle"s ancestors is the North African Barbet, which was imported to the Iberian Peninsula. After that, the breed arrived in Gaul where it was used for his hunting abilities. It"s also commonly believed that Poodles descended from Asian herding dogs, and then traveled with the Germanic Goth and Ostrogoth tribes to eventually become a German water dog. Yet another theory is that the Poodle descended from dogs that were brought out of the Asian steppes by the conquering North African Berbers and eventually found his way into Portugal in the 8th Century with the Moors. Whatever its ancestry, this is a very old breed. Illustrations of Poodle-like dogs adorn Egyptian and Roman artifacts and tombs dating from the first centuries B.C. The drawings and statues show dogs that look very much like modern-day Poodles, bringing in game nets, herding animals, and retrieving game from marshes. Although some say that the Miniature and Toy Poodles emerged shortly after the Standard, many believe it wasn"t until the 1400s that breeders began producing smaller versions of the Poodle — first the Miniature, then the Toy — to delight the Parisian bourgeoise. The Toy and Miniature varieties were created by breeding small Poodles to each other, not by breeding Poodles to smaller breeds. The French used the larger Standard Poodle for duck hunting, and the mid-sized Miniature Poodle to sniff out truffles in the woods. The tiny Toy Poodle"s main job, on the other hand, was to serve as a companion to the nobility and wealthy merchant class. Well-to-do owners in the Renaissance often carried their Toy Poodles in their large shirtsleeves, leading to the nickname "sleeve dogs." Gypsies and traveling performers learned that Poodles excelled in another canine profession: circus dog. They trained Poodles to perform tricks, dressing them in costumes and sculpting their coats into fanciful shapes to add to their stage appeal. Wealthy patrons took note and started clipping, decorating, and even dying their own Poodle companions. The Kennel Club in England registered their first Poodle in 1874, with the first British club for Poodle fanciers arriving on the scene two years later. It"s not known for sure when Poodles arrived in the U.S., but the American Kennel Club registered their first Poodle in 1886. The Poodle Club of America was founded in 1896, but disbanded shortly thereafter. Poodle enthusiasts reestablished the club in 1931. Poodles were fairly rare in the U.S. until after World War II. By the mid-1950s, however, the Poodle had become the most popular breed in the country, a position he held for more than 20 years.
There are three sizes of Poodle: toy, miniature, and standard. These aren"t different breeds, just different sizes of the same dog. The Toy Poodle stands up to 10 inches tall, and weighs about six to nine pounds. The Miniature Poodle stands 11 to 15 inches tall and weighs 15 to 17 pounds. The Standard Poodle stands 15 inches and taller (usually 22 inches); males weigh 45 to 70 pounds and females weigh 45 to 60 pounds.
Intelligent, loving, loyal, and mischievous are four words Poodle enthusiasts commonly use to describe the breed"s personality. The Poodle is also known for what his fans call "an air of distinction": a dignified attitude that"s hard to describe, but easy to spot in the dog. Despite his regal appearance, the Poodle has a goofy streak and loves to play — he"s always up for a game of any kind. He"s also very fond of people and eager to please. Combine that with his legendary intelligence, and you"ve got a dog that"s highly trainable. A good Poodle who"s been taught canine manners has a calm disposition, especially if he gets regular exercise to burn off his natural energy. Some owners and breeders think the smaller Toy and Miniature Poodles are a bit more high-strung than the Standard; however, other breeders and owners disagree with this theory. The Poodle is protective of his home and family, and if strangers approach your house, he"ll sound a warning bark to let you know. And although he"s affectionate with his family, he may take a while to warm up to new people. An outstanding trait of the Poodle is his intelligence. He is often said to have human-like intelligence, an amazing cleverness that astounds his owners. Of course, smart dogs can be difficult to live with. They learn fast — good habits and bad — and they remember everything.
Poodles are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Poodles will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Poodles, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Addison"s Disease: Also known as hypoadrenocorticism, this extremely serious condition is caused by an insufficient production of adrenal hormones by the adrenal gland. Most dogs with Addison"s disease vomit, have a poor appetite, and lethargy. Because these signs are vague and can be mistaken for other conditions, it"s easy to miss this disease as a diagnosis until it reaches more advanced stages. More severe signs occur when a dog is stressed or when potassium levels get high enough to interfere with heart function, causing severe shock and death. If Addison"s is suspected, your vet may perform a series of tests to confirm the diagnosis. Gastric Dilatation-Volvulus: Commonly called bloat, this is a life-threatening condition that affects large, deep-chested dogs like Poodles, especially if they are fed one large meal a day, eat rapidly, drink large volumes of water after eating, and exercise vigorously after eating. Bloat occurs when the stomach is distended with gas or air and then twists. The dog is unable to belch or vomit to rid itself of the excess air in its stomach, and the normal return of blood to the heart is impeded. Blood pressure drops and the dog goes into shock. Without immediate medical attention, the dog can die. Suspect bloat if your dog has a distended abdomen, is salivating excessively and retching without throwing up. He also may be restless, depressed, lethargic, and weak with a rapid heart rate. It"s important to get your dog to the vet as soon as possible. Cushings Disease (Hyperadrenocorticism): This condition occurs when the body produces too much cortisol. It can be due to an imbalance of the pituitary or adrenal gland, or it can occur when a dog has too much cortisol resulting from other conditions. Common signs are excessive drinking and urination. If your Poodle exhibits these two symptoms, take it to the veterinarian. There are treatments to help with this disease, including surgery and medication. Epilepsy: A common cause of seizures in all varieties of Poodles is idiopathic epilepsy. It often is inherited and can cause mild or severe seizures. Seizures may be exhibited by unusual behavior, such as running frantically as if being chased, staggering, or hiding. Seizures are frightening to watch, but the long-term prognosis for dogs with idiopathic epilepsy is generally very good. It"s important to remember that seizures can be caused by many other things than idiopathic epilepsy, such as metabolic disorders, infectious diseases that affect the brain, tumors, exposure to poisons, severe head injuries, and more. Therefore, if your Poodle has seizures, it"s important to take him to the vet right away for a checkup. Hip Dysplasia: When the hip socket is poorly formed or the ligaments are loose enough to allow the ball of the thigh bone (femur) to slide part of the way out of the hip socket, it"s called dysplastic. Canine hip dysplasia is inherited, with environmental factors sometimes playing a large part in its development. Over time, there is degeneration of the joint that can cause arthritis and pain, even lameness. Excess weight, excessive or prolonged exercise before maturity, a fast growth rate, and high-calorie or supplemented diets can contribute to the development of canine hip dysplasia. Veterinary care includes nutritional supplements, medication and, in some cases, surgery. Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism is caused by is an under active thyroid gland. It"s thought to be responsible for conditions such as epilepsy, hair loss, obesity, lethargy, hyperpigmentation, pyoderma and other skin conditions. Legg-Perthes Disease: This is another disease involving the hip joint. Many toy breeds are prone to this condition. When your Poodle has Legg-perthes, the blood supply to the head of the femur (the large rear leg bone) is decreased, and the head of the femur that connects to the pelvis begins to disintegrate. Usually, the first signs of Legg-Perthes, limping and atrophy of the leg muscle, occur when puppies are 4 to 6 months old. The condition can be corrected with surgery to cut off the diseased femur so that it isn"t attached to the pelvis any longer. The scar tissue that results from the surgery creates a false joint and the puppy is usually pain free. Patellar Luxation: The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling, but many dogs lead relatively normal lives with this condition. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): PRA is a family of eye diseases that involves the gradual deterioration of the retina. Early in the disease, affected dogs become night-blind. As the disease progresses, they lose sight during the day. Many affected dogs adapt to their limited or loss of vision very well, as long as the surroundings remain the same. Optic Nerve Hypoplasia: This condition is a congenital failure if development of the optic nerve. It causes blindness and abnormal pupil response in the affected eye. Sebaceous Adenitis (SA): SA is a serious problem in Poodles, especially Standards. It"s estimated that 50 percent of all Standard Poodles are carriers, or affected. This genetic condition is difficult to diagnose and often is mistaken for hypothyroidism, allergies, or other conditions. When a dog has SA, the sebaceous glands in the skin become inflamed for unknown reasons, and are eventually destroyed. These glands typically produce sebum, a fatty secretion that aids in preventing drying of the skin. It"s usually first noticed when the dog is from 1 to 5 years old. Affected dogs typically have dry, scaly skin with hair loss on top of the head, neck, and back. Severely affected dogs can have thickened skin and an unpleasant odor, along with secondary skin infections. Although the problem is primarily cosmetic, it can be uncomfortable for the dog. Your vet will perform a biopsy of the skin if SA is suspected. Treatment options vary. Von Willebrand"s Disease: This is an inherited blood disorder that interferes with the blood"s ability to clot. The main symptom is excessive bleeding after an injury or surgery. Other symptoms include nosebleeds, bleeding gums, or bleeding in the stomach or intestines. There is no cure, and a blood transfusion from the blood of normal dogs is currently the only treatment. Research is underway for new treatments, including medication. Most dogs with von Willebrand"s disease can lead normal lives. A vet can test your dog for the condition. Dogs with this condition should not be bred.
Poodles do just fine in any type of home, from apartments to estates, so long as they have regular exercise and plenty of human companionship. They prefer to live indoors with the family, particularly the smaller Toy and Miniature Poodles, since they have no trouble getting their ya-yas out in the house.   This intelligent breed learns quickly, but owners should be careful: It"s as easy to accidentally teach your Poodle bad habits as it is to teach him good ones, so if you"re new to dogs, sign up for an obedience class with a skilled trainer. That goes for Toy and Miniature Poodles as well. Many owners of small dogs skip training, and wind up with a badly behaved dog.
Recommended daily amount: Standards, 1.5 to 3 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals; Miniatures, 3/4 to 1 cup; Toys, 1/4 to 1/2 cup. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Like any breed, the poodle will pack on weight if he"s overfed, which can cause joint problems and other health woes. Limit treats, keep him active, and feed in meals rather than leaving food available at all times. Although many owners of Miniature or Toy Poodles in particular give their dogs table scraps, resist those pleading eyes — you"ll create a finicky eater. He"ll turn up his nose at dog food, which is healthier for him. Keep your Poodle in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Poodle, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Poodle is a non-shedding breed, and a god bad breath.Trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers.His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear.Begin accustoming your Shiba Inu to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Shiba Inu is a good family dog, as long as he is raised properly and receives training and proper socialization when he"s young. He gets along with children who treat him kindly and respectfully.As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child.Early training and socialization go a long way in helping the Shiba Inu get along with other dogs and animals, but it"s not a guarantee. He can be aggressive toward other dogs and he will chase animals he perceives as prey. Training and keeping him on leash are the best ways to manage the Shiba Inu with other dogs and animals.
No information found

Shih Tzu

Siberian Husky
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 1,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.06

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 5,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

Dog Breed Group:  Herding DogsHeight:  1 foot, 4 inches to 1 foot, 5 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  25 to 35 poundsLife Span:  10 to 15 years
The Puli, also known as the Hungarian Puli and the Hungarian Water Dog, is still used for herding sheep in his homeland. Hungarian shepherds take great pride in the Puli and his abilities; there"s a saying among Hungarian shepherds: "He"s not a dog, he"s a Puli." Pulik (the plural form of Puli) are self-confident, highly intelligent, and sensitive to their owners. Many tend to act as babysitters and guardians of children and other animals in the family. They can be very sensitive to the needs of the elderly and the sick. making them great therapy dogs. Although he"s affectionate and enjoys (and expects) the adoration of his family and friends, he"s suspicious of strangers. The Puli is a strong-willed dog who will attempt to boss you around (nicely), sometimes without you even realizing it. His instinct is to protect and herd, which can sometimes extend to telling you when it"s time to go to bed or where to sit, or moving the kids from one room to another. The distinct Puli coat, which can take about four years to grow in and cord completely, comes in solid colors of rusty black, black, all shades of gray, and white. In Hungary, a common color is fako, which is described as the color of the inside of a whole-wheat roll. His corded coat makes the Puli look much larger than he really is. The width of the coat across the back can be three times wider than the actual dog. Underneath all that hair, the Puli weighs about 30 pounds and stands 16 to 17 inches tall. This unique coat requires a great deal of grooming to keep it clean and attractive, however. It is not a coat for beginners. In fact, even many professional groomers do not know how to properly care for a corded coat — not necessarily because they"re lacking skills, but because the average pet owner rarely keeps a dog in cords. If your heart is set on owning a Puli, you"ll need to learn how to maintain the coat on your own. Ask advice from a Puli breeder, or find someone well-versed in grooming a corded coat. Some owners elect to trim off the coat to make it easier to care for, though diehard Puli enthusiasts cringe at the thought of this: the cords are a vital part of the Puli identity, they say. While trimming the coat off is perfectly acceptable for a pet, the show Puli appears only with cords in most countries. He can be shown with cords or brushed out in the United States, however. The Puli isn"t born with his dreadlocks. Newborns are round puppies with a little crimp to their coats, which soon grows into fluff. The adult coat comes in at about one year of age, at which time the fluff is separated by hand into cords. This process of separating the cords continues for about three or four months until the cords are set. At maturity (about four years of age), the coat reaches the ground. Cords on the head fall over the face, veiling the eyes. Some owners tie up these cords to keep them out of the dog"s face. Obedience training, beginning with puppy classes, is essential for the Puli to teach him proper canine manners. Keep in mind that the Puli is highly intelligent and independent — so he becomes bored with repetitive training. Keep lessons fresh, short, and fun to maintain his interest. Agility and herding are two activities perfectly suited to the breed"s natural instincts and playful, spirited nature. In fact, if you try your hand at herding competitions with your Puli, don"t be surprised to see Border Collie enthusiasts watching your dog in awe. While Border Collies were bred to handle smaller flocks of sheep, the Puli typically handles flocks of 400 or more, and he looks like a tornado as he whirls around the flock to keep it under control. An added benefit to participating in canine sports is that it helps you fulfill a basic Puli need: being the center of attention.
The Puli is vocal and tends to bark. The Puli loves his family but is suspicious of strangers. Because he"s a highly intelligent dog with a great deal of self-confidence, the Puli gets bored with repetitive tasks, such as obedience. Agility and herding are much more to his liking. The Puli can be a bit stubborn, so housetraining might be a challenge at first. Crate training is recommended. Pulik have a reputation for remaining puppyish well into their older years. They love to play and like to have a lot of toys. Grooming the Puli is difficult, especially if the coat is corded. New owners should seek help to learn how to properly groom their dogs. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Puli is an ancient breed with a history that reaches back at least 2,000 years. Some believe a dog similar to the Puli existed 6,000 or more years ago; others believe the Puli derived more recently from the Tibetan Terrier. Around the turn of the century, crews excavating for oil in what is now known as Iraq — once home to the ancient civilization known as Sumeria — came across the grave of a man who had been buried with a medium-sized dog and a sheep. Among the artifacts in the grave, they found a long, coarse knot of hair that was almost white with age. The makeup of that hair was very much like that of today"s Puli. It"s believed that this man was a shepherd, buried with his favorite sheepdog and a sheep. There are indications that the Sumerians used Pulik or Puli-type dogs to herd sheep thousands of years ago. Clay plaques found in excavations of the town of Eridu reveal the Sumerian laws about animals. One of these has lines that refer to a Puli and a Komondor, another herding dog. Also in the same excavation site, an undamaged statuette of a Puli was found in the crypt of an eight-year-old girl. About 1,100 years ago, Magyar tribesmen brought Pulik to Hungary, where they became prized for their herding abilities. Many of the shepherds preferred black dogs because they were easier to see among the white flocks. It"s thought that the Puli was used to herd and drive the sheep, while the larger Komondor was used to guard the flocks. Back then, a good Puli cost as much as a shepherd"s full year of wages. As much as they valued their dogs, however, they were ruthless in culling those who weren"t as intelligent or weren"t able to perform their duties well. Many think that this culling is the reason why the Puli is such an intelligent and healthy breed today. By the 1800s, the Hungarian shepherds determined the very best characteristics of these small sheepdogs, and they tried to breed specifically to produce high-quality animals. In the late 1800s, the first description of the Puli was written — but by then the need for the sheepdog was diminishing, and so were his numbers. In 1912, Dr. Emil Raitsits, a professor at the Hungarian University of Veterinary Medicine, began a program to save the Puli from extinction. Adolf Lendl, the director of the Budapest Zoo, joined in the efforts. Together they remodeled part of the zoo for an experimental breeding program and exhibit. The program expanded, and they eventually named their kennel Allatkert. The foundation stock for many Hungarian kennels came from the Allatkert Kennel. In 1915, enthusiasts wrote the first breed standard for the Puli. In 1924, the Federation Cynologique Internationale (International Kennel Club) approved this standard. At first there were three categories of Puli: the ancestral (working) Puli with a shaggy coat; the luxury or show Puli; and the dwarf Puli. In 1935, four sizes of Pulik were recognized: the police Puli (19.7 inches high); the working or medium Puli (15.7 to 19.7 inches); the small Puli (11.8 to 15.7 inches); and the dwarf, miniature, or toy Puli (11 inches and under). The medium-sized Puli was the most popular. By this time, owning a Puli, a Komondor, or other native Hungarian breeds became a source of pride in Hungary. About the same time, the U.S. Department of Agriculture became interested in the Puli and, in 1935, imported four purebred Pulik to take part in herding dog tests conducted at the Department"s facility in Beltsville, Maryland. The Puli were said to have scored high marks on these tests, though the results were never published. At the outbreak of World War II, the tests were stopped and the Pulik were sold to professional breeders. The original four dogs and their progeny are thought to be the first Pulik in the United States. World War II was devastating to Hungary and also to dog breeders, particularly those in Europe. Food was scarce and there were no medical supplies. Kennels had to give their valuable breeding stock to people in other countries, and the Pulik who were left behind were often killed by bombs or shot by German or Russian soldiers. If the breed hadn"t been so popular before the war, it probably would be extinct now. Just as the Puli survived the harsh plains of Hungary, he beat the odds and, after the war, the number of Pulik in Hungary grew. In 1959, the Hungarian Puli Club created a Puli breed standard that eliminated the toy and police-size Pulik and included all of the remaining sizes in one category. By the 1960s, the number of Pulik in Hungary had reached prewar numbers. The Puli was accepted for American Kennel Club registration in 1936, and the Puli Club of America was formed in 1951.
Males are 17 inches tall and weigh 30 to 35 pounds. Females are 16 inches tall and weigh 25 to 30 pounds.
The unusual corded coat often draws the attention of those unfamiliar with the breed. But to those who know and love the Puli, it"s his personality that stands out. The Puli is fun-loving and affectionate, and he enjoys the company of his family. He"s also smart, hardworking, and athletic. Being suspicious of strangers, he makes a good watchdog. He"s also a strong-willed dog who requires a firm but kind owner. Don"t be surprised when he tries to "herd" you or your children. Many Pulik are vocal and like to bark. A "quiet" command should be part of early training. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Puli needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Puli puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Pulik are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Pulik will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Pulik, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Hip Dysplasia: This is an inherited condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but others don"t display outward signs of discomfort. (X-ray screening is the most certain way to diagnose the problem.) Either way, arthritis can develop as the dog ages. Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred — so if you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): This is a family of eye diseases that involves the gradual deterioration of the retina. Early in the disease, affected dogs become night-blind; they lose sight during the day as the disease progresses. Many affected dogs adapt well to their limited or lost vision, as long as their surroundings remain the same. Cataracts: These afflictions cause opacity on the lens of the eye, resulting in poor vision. The dog"s eye(s) will have a cloudy appearance. Cataracts usually occur in old age and sometimes can be surgically removed to improve vision.
The Puli is a herding dog at heart, and he does best in a home with enough space for him to race off his natural energy. A large, fenced yard (make that a very tall fence) or a farm is ideal. He can adjust to smaller living spaces, but be prepared for his running laps around the dining room chairs and taking leaps over the couch. Exercise and playtime aside, bring the Puli indoors to live with you. He"s a loyal companion who enjoys being with people, and he shouldn"t be permanently relegated to the backyard. The agile Puli is a good candidate for many canine sports, especially herding tests, agility, and obedience competition (though obedience work can seem repetitive to the fun-loving Puli). If he"s not a working dog, he needs the mental and physical challenges available in dog sports. Otherwise he can become bored, which can lead to destructive behaviors such as barking, digging, and chewing. The Puli"s agility can get him in trouble, however. It"s been reported that Pulik can jump six-foot fences, so be sure your yard has a secure, high fence to keep him from escaping and injuring himself. Proper training and socialization are essential for the strong-willed Puli. He must learn good canine manners, and you must learn not to be bossed around by him. This dog is a leader, and he will lead you if you allow him to.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 2 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Puli in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Puli, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Puli coat is considered to be nonshedding and hypoallergenic. Most Pulik are black, though white and gray are also found in the United States. In Hungary, the most common color after black is the brownish fako (described as the color of a whole-wheat roll). Black coats are described as a "weathered" black, because some white hairs begin to grow in when the dog is about a year old. In addition, because the cords don"t shed, they lose some of their color intensity over time due to exposure to the sun and air. Some Puli coats are self-cording, though most are helped along by humans who separate the cords by hand when the adult coat comes in (at about one year of age). As the coat texture changes from puppy fluff to adult coat, the undercoat is packed into the interior of the outer coat tendril to form a felt-like structure. It takes about four years for the coat to become fully mature. Keep the fluffy, uncorded Puli coat in good condition through regular brushing and combing to remove tangles and dirt and to distribute natural skin oils. The corded coat is never brushed but managed by hand: first it"s dampened with water, then the cords are separated and twirled. The length of the corded coat is sometimes trimmed to keep it from collecting dust and dirt. Bathing a fluffy Puli coat is like bathing any other breed. Put the dog in the tub, add water and soap, and scrub. Dunking your corded-coat Puli in the tub, however, is a time-consuming task that takes a lot of hard work. First, the cords must be thoroughly soaked with water (this takes a while), and then you can work in some diluted shampoo. Rinsing can take up to 30 minutes. Following that, the cords are squeezed dry, first by hand and then with a towel. After a bath, some owners put a heavy sweatshirt on the Puli to continue soaking up the water. Air-drying the coat can take up s tend to shed less than those who live in warmer climates. You can avoid matting — and excess hair on your furniture — if you commit to brushing your dog"s coat at least once a week during the year — and daily during shedding season.Siberian Huskies are clean dogs and will take the time to clean themselves — much like a cat will. They don"t typically emit "doggy" odor and rarely need baths. Unless, of course, they wiggle in something disgusting in the backyard or find a stinky body of water to jump in. When it is bath time, select a high-quality dog shampoo designed to keep the natural oils in your dog"s skin and coat.Huskies come in a variety of colors and markings, from black to pure white with colored markings on the body that include reds and coppers. Their eyes can be brown, blue, or a combination. Their faces sport masks that add to their eye appeal.Brush your Husky"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath.Trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers.His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear.Begin accustoming your Husky to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Huskies make great pets for households with children. They can be very tolerant of children, but like all other dogs, should be supervised when around young children.Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.Siberian Huskies do get along with other dogs but it is still important to take your puppy to socialization classes. This gets them used to other dogs and also to people, although they are also very affectionate to strangers. Socialization teaches puppies how to behave and greet other dogs and their owners.Keep in mind the history of this breed. The harsh conditions in Siberia created a strong prey drive in this breed because food was often hard to find. As a result, many Huskies today maintain that prey drive toward small animals such as squirrels, rabbits, and cats. Some Huskies, however, thrive in multi-pet households, especially when they are raised with other pets from puppyhood.
No information found

Silky Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 1,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.17

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 3,
"Dog Friendly" : 2,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.1

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.88

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.09

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 3,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.19

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  9 inches to 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  8 to 10 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Silky, as he"s often called, is an elegant little dog with a beautiful, silky — hopefully that wasn"t a surprise — coat of tan and blue. Beneath that delicate-looking exterior, however, is a big, bold spirit. People unfamiliar with the breed are often surprised to see the small Silky warn off intruders, romp with large dogs, or keep up with their owners on a hike. But this shouldn"t be a shock. The Silky is, after all, a terrier, with a true terrier temperament: scrappy, tenacious, and fond of digging, barking, and chasing. If you don"t consider these characteristics endearing, the Silky Terrier isn"t for you. Despite the tough attitude, however, the Silky"s a loyal dog who loves to be with his family. He"s best suited to homes where he won"t be left home alone for long periods: he needs the companionship of his human pack, and he"s apt to get into mischief if he isn"t supervised. The Silky needs daily physical and mental exercise, and will be happy to join you for a walk in the neighborhood or a hike in the country. Despite his high energy, he can be an apartment or condo dog. He does have a propensity to bark though, so a "Quiet" command should be part of his basic canine manners. (The upside: he"ll let you know when you have visitors.) The Silky Terrier who"s exposed to kids beginning in puppyhood can be a good companion for children older than 10, as long as they treat him carefully and kindly. He may not tolerate poking and prodding from toddlers and very young kids. For the right owner, this fun-loving and energetic companion can add spice, and a lot of love, to life.
Silky Terriers are active dogs who need exercise and mental stimulation. This doesn"t mean strenuous hikes or hours of retrieving, but it does mean you"ll need to provide more activity than tummy rubs on the couch. Although they need exercise, they can make good apartment or condo dogs. Silkies have a strong prey drive and will chase cats, squirrels, rodents, and sometimes other dogs. A Silky may not be the best choice if you"ve got other small pets. Also, keep your Silky leashed when you"re in unsecured areas to avoid having him disappear into the wild blue yonder when something small and furry streaks by. Silkies like to be with their families and are happiest when they can spend the whole day in your company. Despite the long coat, Silkies are fairly easy keepers. But they do require some grooming: thorough brushing two to three times a week and a monthly bath. Like all terriers, the Silky enjoys digging. To save your flowerbeds, either consider another breed, or train your Silky to dig in a specific area. It"s much easier to channel the instinct than to suppress it. Barking, another terrier trait, is a much-enjoyed pastime for Silkies. Although you can teach your Silky a "Quiet" command, he"ll still bark when he thinks it"s necessary. The upside is, Silkies are excellent watchdogs. Silky Terriers can be good family dogs, but because of their scrappy personality, children should be about 10 years old and up. Although they"re generally friendly, Silkies can be territorial and aggressive toward other dogs if they"re not socialized properly. A Silky shouldn"t be left unattended in a yard. He"s small enough to be considered prey by larger wild animals, terrier enough to dig his way out, and Silky enough to get into mischief. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Silky Terrier originated in Australia in the 1890s, when breeders crossed imported Yorkshire Terriers with their native Australian Terriers. Some of the offspring looked like Yorkies, some looked like Australian Terriers, and others looked like the Silky of today, with a size and coat length that was between the two parent breeds. The Silky-looking dogs were interbred until the puppies predictably had Silky traits. In 1906, Australian fanciers developed a breed standard — written guidelines for what the breed should look, move, and act like — in Sydney, New South Wales. In 1909, another standard was drawn up in Victoria. The two standards didn"t completely match up, mostly on the preferred weight and ear type. The two camps compromised and a new breed standard came out in 1926. The breed has had several names: initially, he was called the Sydney Silky Terrier. In 1955, he became the Australian Silky Terrier (still the official name for the breed in Australia). In the U.S., the name was changed to Silky Terrier.
Males and females stand nine to 10 inches tall, and weigh eight to 10 pounds.
The Silky Terrier is a friendly, intelligent, spirited, and self-assured. True to his hunting roots, he loves to chase small animals, and won"t back down from a fight. Despite his small size he makes an excellent watchdog, as he"s quick to sound the alarm if something or someone strange enters his turf. Though independent, the Silky is devoted to his people and is happiest when he"s part of daily family life. He likes to be in the house, following you room to room, or joining you at the front door to bark at your guests. He does best if he can be with his human "pack" most of the day. If you travel a lot, this adaptable dog would be happy to hit the road with you. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Silky needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Silky puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Silkys are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Silkys will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Silkys, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease: This involves the hip joint. If your Westie has Legg-Perthes, the blood supply to the head of the femur (the large rear leg bone) is decreased, and the head of the femur that connects to the pelvis begins to disintegrate. The first symptoms, limping and atrophy of the leg muscle, usually occur when puppies are four to six months old. Surgery can correct the condition, usually resulting in a pain-free puppy. Patellar Luxation: Also known as slipped stifles, this is a common problem in small dogs. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling, although many dogs lead relatively normal lives with this condition. Diabetes Mellitus: This is a disorder in which the body cannot regulate blood sugar levels. Symptoms of diabetes are excessive urination and thirst, increased appetite, and weight loss. Diabetes can be controlled by diet and the administration of insulin. Epilepsy: This is a neurological condition that"s often, but not always, inherited. Epilepsy can cause mild or severe seizures that may show themselves as unusual behavior (such as running frantically as if being chased, staggering, or hiding) or even by falling down, limbs rigid, and losing consciousness. Seizures are frightening to watch, but the long-term prognosis for dogs with idiopathic epilepsy is generally very good. It"s important to take your dog to the vet for proper diagnosis (especially since seizures can have other causes) and treatment. Tracheal Collapse: This is often seen in smaller breeds and can be seen occasionally in the Silky Terrier. It is caused by a weakening of the cartilage; the tracheal or windpipe flattens and obstructs the airway. Symptoms include coughing that sounds like a goose honk, fainting, and an intolerance to exercise. It is treated with antibiotics, steroids, cough suppressants, and using a harness instead of a collar. If medical treatment does not work, surgery is recommended.
The Silky Terrier may look like a toy, but he"s a real dog who needs exercise and training. He enjoys daily walks, romping with you in the yard, or trips to a dog park with a special area for small breeds. In a pinch, the Silky is happy to take his workout indoors with a rousing game of fetch in the hallway. These are not outdoor dogs. The Silky craves the companionship of his people, and he"s also small enough to be considered prey by wild animals. And despite his size, another risk is that he may fight with another dog who wanders onto his turf. When it comes to training, Silky Terriers make willing and able students. Because they"re so smart, however, you need to be consistent; otherwise they"ll be inclined to make up their own rules. The best way to win your Silky"s cooperation is with fun lessons that use positive reinforcement. Crate training is the easiest way to housetrain your Silky, and crates are also a good way to keep your Silky safe and out of trouble when you"re away from home. Silky Terriers are mischievous by nature and can be destructive when left unsupervised. A crate is also a place where he can retreat for a nap. Crate training at a young age will help your dog accept confinement if he ever needs to be boarded or hospitalized. Never stick your Silky in a crate all day long, however. It"s not a jail, and he shouldn"t spend more than a few hours at a time in it except when he"s sleeping at night. Silkys are people dogs, and they aren"t meant to spend their lives locked up in a crate or kennel.
Recommended daily amount: 1/2 to 3/4 cup of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Puppies need about 1/8 to 1/4 cup a day. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Base the amount of food you give on your Silky"s physical condition, not by how hungry he acts. He"s a con artist, and if he can trick you into doling out more food, he will. Keep your Silky in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Silky, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
This breed"s coat is beautiful: long and sleek, parted down the back, and hanging five to six inches down. The color is a rich tan and various shades of blue. You might peg the Silky as a fussy breed, grooming-wise, but he really isn"t. A thorough brushing and combing two to three times a week (and before bathtime), along with a bath every month or so will keep your Silky clean and tangle-free. Brush your Silky"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your Silky to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Silky can be a wonderful family pet, so long as he"s raised with kids and grows up around their noise and commotion. Given his strong personality, though, he"s usually best for families with children older than 10 who know how to handle a dog. He may not tolerate pokes and prods from younger kids. As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. The Silky gets along with other dogs very well so long as he"s been raised to be dog-friendly, though there may be occasional bossiness and rivalry for attention or treats. Like all terriers, the Silky loves to chase small animals, so he may not be suited for homes with cats, rabbits, or other small pets.
No information found

Skye Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 2,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.6

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.31

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.36

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 3,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.38


Sloughi
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.31

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.32

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.42

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  2 feet to 2 feet, 5 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  40 to 63 poundsLife Span:  12 to 16 years
This lean, leggy sighthound likes his comforts — especially soft bedding and, ideally, access to the furniture. Noble and haughty in demeanor, he"s affectionate with his own people but aloof toward strangers. He gets along with older children who understand how to interact with dogs, but isn"t a good match for a family with young kids. Sloughis are sleek, clean, and quiet, but their stubborn hound nature can make them a poor choice for first-time dog owners.
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found

Small Munsterlander Pointer
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 4,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.7

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.44

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.64

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 5,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.77

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 7 inches to 1 foot, 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  40 to 60 poundsLife Span:  12 to 14 years
Despite his name, the Small Munsterland Pointer is more of a medium-size dog. He"s a popular hunting dog in Europe and is beginning to make a name for himself in the U.S. as well. Loyal and affectionate, he"s generally easy to train and has great water-retrieving skills in both salt and freshwater. Like any sporting breed, he needs plenty of daily exercise. He does best in a home where he can use his hunting skills or turn his intelligence to a challenging dog sport or activity such as agility, flyball, or search and rescue work.
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found

Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 4.0

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.45

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.54

Dog Breed Group:  Terrier DogsHeight:  1 foot, 5 inches to 1 foot, 7 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  30 to 40 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier (Wheaten for short) originated in Ireland as a versatile farm dog. Today he"s a versatile family dog, adaptable to life in city or country as long as he gets the exercise and attention he needs.Consider a Wheaten if you like terrier looks but find their personalities a bit overwhelming. Don"t get us wrong! The Wheaten has typical terrier traits, being a lively and happy dog, but he tends to be less scrappy than some other terrier breeds we know.He"s highly people-oriented and loves kids, and his moderate size and exercise needs mean he fits well into most homes. The all-purpose Wheaten will enjoy going for walks or hikes and competing in agility or flyball. He can also win titles in tracking and herding and makes a super therapy dog.Expect your Wheaten to greet you by bounding straight up to give you a kiss or even jumping into your arms. He"ll twirl when he"s happy, rest his head on your lap when he wants something, frolic in the snow just for the fun of it, and frown at being expected to go out in the rain. (Ironically, this Irish import doesn"t like to get wet.)It"s clear that the Wheaten has lots of pluses, but no dog"s perfect. For starters, that abundant silky coat needs lots of grooming to stay gorgeous. He can be a messy eater, finishing a meal by wiping his beard on your sofa, and debris from the outdoors gets caught in his coat and deposited around the house. If you"re looking for a no-muss, no-fuss breed, this isn"t the one. He can also be stubborn, meaning you"ll have to be firm — not harsh, just firm — and consistent with training.If you don"t have time for the Wheaten"s grooming and training needs, think twice before you get one. But if you can take care of him, you"ll never regret bringing this steady but fun-loving dog into your life.
Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers can adapt to just about any kind of home, city or country, apartment or suburban house. If you"re a neat freak, this may not be the breed for you. The Wheaten coat attracts dirt, debris, and snow, which is then deposited throughout the house. Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers generally aren"t aggressive and can get along with most dogs and other pets. They"ll chase small, furry creatures outside however, including roaming cats. Although they"re not yappy, the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier will bark if he sees or hears something suspicious. Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers don"t do well in heat. Keep your Wheatie indoors on hot days. Terriers love to dig, and the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier is no exception. Be prepared for some holes in your yard. Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers want to keep their people company, and they can get stressed when left alone for long periods. This can lead to destructive behaviors and barking. Give your Wheaten at least 30 minutes of daily exercise to keep him healthy and happy. Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers are good with children. Wheatens have minds of their own, which can make training a challenge. Be firm and consistent, and use positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards. Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers shed little, but their coats need frequent brushing and combing to remove tangles. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store.
In Ireland, the terrier was the poor man"s dog, a versatile farm dog who could rid the place of vermin, do a little hunting, and help guard the property against intruders, both animal and human.Much of the Wheaten"s early history wasn"t recorded, but he probably shares a common ancestor with the Kerry Blue Terrier and the Irish Terrier. They also share a sign that they were working dogs: a docked tail, which told the tax collector that they were exempt from the tax on dogs.The Wheaten wasn"t recognized as a breed by the Irish Kennel Club until 1937, on St. Patrick"s Day. To win a championship, he was required to qualify in field trials, with rats, rabbits, and badgers as prey, a rule that"s since gone by the wayside.The first Wheatens arrived in the U.S. in November of 1946. A Boston Globe Post report listed seven of them among the cargo of the freighter Norman J. Coleman, which docked in Boston after journeying from Belfast. Two of the pups went home with Lydia Vogel of Springfield, Massachusetts. Vogel showed them the next year at the Westminster Kennel Club show, and they produced 17 puppies.It wasn"t until 1962, however, that the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier Club of America was founded in Brooklyn. Naturally, the first meeting took place on St. Patrick"s Day. Attendees included three canine pioneers of the breed: Holmenocks Gramachree, Gads Hill, and Holmenocks Hallmark.The American Kennel Club (AKC) recognized the breed in 1973, and Holmenocks Gramachree became the first Wheaten to be registered by the AKC. Today, the breed ranks 62nd in popularity among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
Males average 18 to 19 inches in height and weigh 35 to 40 pounds; females are 17 to 18 inches and weigh 30 to 35 pounds.
Happy, steady, and self-confident, the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier is alert enough to be a good watchdog, but too friendly to back up his warning barks. He loves kids and gets along with other animals, especially when he"s been raised with them. He will chase any small, furry creature that crosses his path outside, however.Like every dog, Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Wheaten puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Not all Wheatens will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed: Protein-Losing Nephropathy means an excessive amount of proteins and plasma is lost through the kidney. Symptoms include weight loss, swelling of the legs or abdomen, diarrhea, increased urination and thirst, labored breathing, and kidney failure. Usually dogs with Protein-Losing Nephropathy have increased serum creatinine and urea nitrogen, as well as anemia, high cholesterol, and increased phosphorous. There"s no cure, but the condition can be managed through medications and diet. Protein-Losing Enteropathy (PLE) is characterized by the loss of an excessive amount of proteins and plasma through the gastrointestinal tract. Signs include weight loss, swelling of the legs or abdomen, diarrhea, increased urination, increased thirst, and labored breathing. Usually dogs with PLE have low levels of cholesterol, albumin, and globulin. There"s no cure for PLE, but the condition can be managed with medication and diet. Addison"s Disease, also known as hypoadrenocorticism, is a serious condition caused by insufficient production of adrenal hormones. Most dogs with Addison"s disease vomit, have a poor appetite, and have little energy. Because these signs are vague and can be mistaken for other conditions, it"s easy to miss this disease until it reaches more advanced stages. More severe signs occur when a dog is stressed or when potassium levels become high enough to interfere with heart function, causing shock and death. If your vet suspects Addison"s, she may perform a series of tests to confirm the diagnosis. Renal Dysplasia (RD) involves abnormal development of the kidney, and can result in early renal failure. The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier has a known inherited basis for RD. Signs include increased water consumption and urination, poor appetite, vomiting, and sometimes, frequent urinary tract infections.If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition.In Wheatens, you should expect to see the results of annual blood and urine tests for kidney function and abnormalities associated with protein-losing nephropathy, protein-losing enteropathy, renal dysplasia, and Addison"s disease and certification from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) that the eyes are normal.Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old.
The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier can adapt to a variety of homes, including apartments, as long as he gets enough exercise. No matter what kind of home he has, this people-loving dog should live inside, with his human family, not outdoors by himself.Give your Wheaten at least a half hour of exercise daily. This can be a couple of 15-minute walks, a walk and a good game of fetch, or practice for whatever dog sports the two of you enjoy.Begin training early, first with puppy kindergarten, then with a basic obedience class. The Wheaten has a mind of his own, and to train him successfully, you"ll need to be firm and consistent — but not harsh. He responds well to positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards.He"ll enjoy playing with you in the yard, but make sure it"s securely fenced: terriers are hunters and will take off after small animals if they"re not confined. An underground electronic fence is unlikely to stop a Wheaten who"s hot on the trail of something small and furry.Despite their Irish origins, Wheatens aren"t fond of rain, but they relish playing in snow. Heat makes them wilt, so keep your Wheatie in air-conditioned comfort when the temperature soars.
Recommended daily amount: 1.5 to 2 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals.How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.Keep your Wheaten in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.For more on feeding your Wheaten, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier"s silky single coat makes him stand out from the rest of the terrier family. The abundant coat covers the entire body in gentle waves, with a fall of hair over the eyes.The color is, well, any shade of wheaten, ranging from pale beige to shimmering gold. If you look closely, you might find the occasional red, white, or black hair, and the muzzle and ears sometimes have blue-gray shading.Puppies have their own distinctive look. They"re born with dark coats that lighten with age. Often, the final color doesn"t emerge until pups are two years old, and the coats aren"t wavy until the dog reaches maturity.Being a single-coated breed, meaning he has no undercoat, the Wheaten sheds only lightly. He"s often touted as being nonallergenic or hypoallergenic, but in reality, no dog is nonallergenic — they all produce allergens in the form of dander and saliva. If you"re allergic to dogs, spend plenty of time around many different Wheatens to test if they trigger a reaction.You only need to bathe your Wheaten when it"s really necessary. How much time you spend grooming depends on the look you want. If you want him to look like a classic Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier, you"ll need to groom daily. If you don"t mind a somewhat scruffier look, you can get by with 10 to 15 minutes of brushing and combing two or three times a week.In either case, you"ll need a stainless steel Greyhound comb, a dematting comb, a pin brush, a slicker brush, a pair of thinning shears for trimming the fall (the hair over the eyes), and a regular pair of scissors.Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Wheaten"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and won"t scratch your legs when your Wheaten jumps up to greet you.Start grooming your Wheaten when he"s a puppy, to get him used to it. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier does well with kids of all ages, and he"s sturdy enough to withstand their handling. However, as with any breed, always teach children how to approach and touch your Wheaten, and supervise all interactions between dogs and young children, to prevent any biting or tail pulling from either party.The Wheaten is less territorial and less aggressive toward other dogs than many other terriers. He gets along with other pets, especially if he"s raised with them. He"s not above a good chase, though, and squirrels and other small, furry animals —  including free-roaming cats — had better move their tails if they stray into a Wheaten"s yard.
No information found

Stabyhoun
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 2,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 2]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.3

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 1,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.27

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.38


Staffordshire Bull Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 3,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 1,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 3,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.12

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 3,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 2,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.12

Dog Breed Group:  Terrier DogsHeight:  1 foot, 2 inches to 1 foot, 4 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  24 to 38 poundsLife Span:  12 to 14 years
The Staffordshire Bull Terrier can be an imposing dog with its strong, muscular body, intense stare, and powerful stance. Many are interested in the breed because it looks like a tough dog but are surprised to learn that the Stafford is a sensitive and loving companion who enjoys playing more than being tough. He sees life as a joyful adventure and lives it to the fullest. Fans love the Staffordshire Bull Terrier for his small to medium size, short, easy-care coat, and dynamic yet gentle personality. With his short, broad head and muscular body, he resembles the other bull breeds such as American Staffordshire Terriers and American Pit Bull Terriers, but he is a breed unto himself with distinct physical characteristics that set him apart, including size and ear shape. The Stafford is known for his love of people and trustworthy nature. He has been described as "a sort of everybody"s Man Friday," and his greatest desire is to spend time with his people, whether that means vegging out on the sofa and watching football, running errands in the car, going for walks, or participating in activities such as agility, flyball, obedience, and therapy work. Expect to give this athletic and energetic dog a vigorous walk every day, as well as plenty of attention during downtime. He dislikes being left to his own devices. Staffordshire Bull Terriers are not a breed that can be left outside alone or at home for long periods of time without human companionship. Nicknamed the nanny dog, the Stafford is prized for his patience with and love of children, although it goes without saying that no dog should ever be left alone with young children or expected to double as a baby-sitter. He is not always so friendly toward dogs he doesn"t know however, a remnant of his origin as a fighting breed, which required him to be aggressive toward other dogs yet gentle with human handlers. Be aware that some municipalities restrict the ownership of bull breeds. Be sure that yours is not one of them before acquiring a Stafford. For the person who has an understanding of his sensitive nature and can give him patient, firm leadership, the Stafford is one of the finest dog companions around.
The SBT should not be left to live outside. He"s a companion dog and thrives in the presence of his family. Because he may be aggressive toward unknown dogs, a Stafford should never be walked off leash. Staffords are highly intelligent, but they are also freethinkers who like to do things their own way. They need firm, patient, consistent training. Staffordshire Bull Terriers are energetic dogs who need a vigorous walk or play session daily. SBTs enjoy their comforts and will readily join you on the sofa or bed if allowed. Staffords shed little, although they may have a heavy shed once a year. They require weekly brushing to remove dead hair and keep their coat shiny. The Stafford needs early socialization, especially if you want him to be friendly toward other animals. The SBT is not recommended for a timid or first-time owner. This breed needs a confident trainer who is consistent and firm but also loving. Staffords love to chew, especially during puppyhood. Provide them with tough, durable toys. Like all terriers, Staffords are diggers. Reinforce the bottom of fences with concrete or chicken wire so they can"t dig beneath them. Staffordshire Bull Terriers can do well in apartments if they are properly exercised, but ideal living quarters include a fenced yard where they can play. Staffordshire Bull Terriers do not handle heat very well and need to be monitored on hot days to ensure that they don"t overheat. Staffords love children, but despite their nickname of "nanny dog," they should not double as a baby-sitter. Always supervise interactions between children and dogs. If properly socialized and raised with them, Staffordshire Bull Terriers can do well with other dogs and animals. It is important to understand that some Staffordshire Bull Terriers will never do well with other animals and may need to live in single animal homes. Staffordshire Bull Terriers have a strong prey drive which will send them after small animals around your neighborhood including cats. Staffordshire Bull Terriers have a high pain threshold and can become injured without any outward sign, such as whining. The Staffordshire Bull Terrier is a restricted or banned breed in many cities and the number of cities restricting the breed is rising. It is important to research your city"s dog by-laws to avoid the unnecessary seizure and destruction of your dog. Staffordshire Bull Terriers are extremely mouthy as puppies and can be destructive if not closely supervised. Staffordshire Bull Terriers are protective of family members, but they are not too concerned about property. They are more likely to welcome burglars than to guard the silver. Never buy a Stafford from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments.
The Staffordshire Bull Terrier shares a common ancestor — the Bulldog — with the American Staffordshire Terrier, the American Pit Bull Terrier, and the Bull Terrier. It was created in the early nineteenth century to be smaller and faster in the fighting ring, yet gentle and friendly toward people. It was probably developed by crossing the Bulldog with an ancestor of the Manchester Terrier. The cross eventually evolved into the Staffordshire Bull Terrier we see today. The first Staffordshire Bull Terrier Club was formed in England in 1835, and a breed standard was written shortly thereafter. In the United States, the Staffordshire Bull Terrier generally enjoyed life as a family companion, and it wasn"t until 1975 that the breed was recognized by the American Kennel Club. The first Stafford registered with the AKC was named Tinkinswood Imperial. The Staffordshire Bull Terrier Club of America was founded in 1974. Today, the Stafford is ranked 85th among the 157 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC. They are excellent dogs who truly embody the description "man"s best friend," and many enthusiasts know that they own one of the best kept secrets of the dog world.
Staffords stand 14 to 16 inches at the shoulder, with males being taller. Male Staffords weigh 28 to 38 pounds; females, 24 to 34 pounds.
Loving toward people from just a few weeks of age, a proper Stafford is never shy or snarly. He is energetic and enthusiastic in everything he does and remains on alert, even in repose. This breed"s temperament is described as tough, courageous, tenacious (read: stubborn), and curious. A people-loving personality makes him a good caretaker of his family, but he"s less likely to be protective of property. Because he"s so attentive and interested in people, however, he"ll always alert you to the presence of visitors, wanted or unwanted. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, a Staffordshire Bull Terrier needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when he"s young, and it should continue throughout his life. Socialization helps ensure that your Stafford puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Staffordshire Bull Terriers are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they can be subject to certain health conditions. Not all SBTs will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In SBTs, you should expect to see health clearances on both parents from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips and elbows, and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation, certifying that the eyes are healthy. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following problems may occur in the breed: Canine Hip Dysplasia (CHD). This is a heritable condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint, eventually causing lameness or arthritis. X-ray screening for hip dysplasia is done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred. Elbow Dysplasia: This is a heritable condition that is thought to be caused by different growth rates of the three bones that make up the dog"s elbow, causing joint laxity. This can lead to painful lameness. Depending on the severity of the problem, your vet may recommend surgery, weight management, or medication to control the pain. Patellar Luxation: This common problem occurs when the patella, which has three parts — the femur (thigh bone), patella (knee cap), and tibia (calf) — is not properly lined up and often slips out of place, causing the dog to skip or hop when it happens. It is thought to be hereditary. The rubbing caused by patellar luxation can lead to arthritis, a degenerative joint disease. There are four grades of patellar luxation, ranging from grade I, an occasional luxation causing temporary lameness in the joint, to grade IV, in which the turning of the tibia is severe and the patella cannot be realigned manually. This gives the dog a bowlegged appearance. Severe grades of patellar luxation may require surgical repair. Hereditary Juvenile Cataracts: The development of opacity or cloudiness in the lens of the eye at an early age. This condition progresses rapidly, and dogs can be blind by 3 years of age. Surgery can sometimes partially restore vision. A DNA test is available to identify dogs that are carriers, affected, or clear of the defective gene. L-2 Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria: Affected dogs lack a particular enzyme to break down the aforementioned compound. It then builds up in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma, causing such signs as lack of coordination, muscle tremors, poor learning ability, and seizures. Signs can be treated, but there is no cure. Dogs with this condition are usually euthanized at an early age. A DNA test is available to identify dogs that are carriers, affected, or clear of the defective gene. Buy only from breeders who use this DNA test to screen their breeding animals. Skin Allergies: Also known as atopic dermatitis, this itchy, scratchy condition is sometimes seen in certain Staffords. It"s not unusual for afflicted dogs to suffer hair loss or to develop sore spots on their skin. The problem is often compounded by bacterial infections. Aggressive flea control treatment can help, as can supplementing the diet with omega-3 fatty acids, such as those found in fish oil. Demodectic Mange: All dogs carry demodex mites. The mites live in hair follicles and usually don"t cause any problems, but dogs with weakened or compromised immune systems can develop a condition called demodectic mange. Also called demodicosis, it can be localized or generalized. In the localized form, patches of red, scaly skin with hair loss appears on the head, neck and forelegs. It"s thought of as a puppy disease and often clears up on its own. Generalized demodectic mange covers the entire body and affects older puppies and young adult dogs. The dog develops patchy skin, bald spots, and skin infections all over the body. The American Academy of Veterinary Dermatology recommends neutering or spaying all dogs that develop generalized demodectic mange because there is a genetic link. The good news is that the mite can"t be passed to humans or other dogs.
The Staffordshire Bull Terrier is a companion dog who does well in any type of home as long as he gets daily exercise. He should live indoors, with access to a securely fenced yard. Like all terriers, Staffords are diggers, so it is important to reinforce fences by embedding them in concrete or burying chicken wire at the bottom to prevent escapes. Underground electronic fences are not suitable for this breed. A Stafford will ignore the shock if he sees another dog approaching his territory, and the lack of a solid barrier means that other dogs can enter the yard, which can lead to a serious fight. His short face makes the Staffordshire Bull Terrier unsuited to staying outdoors for more than a few minutes in a hot or humid climate, and he should always have access to shade and fresh drinking water. Some Staffords enjoy playing in water and will appreciate having a kiddie pool to lounge in on hot days, but others prefer to avoid the wet stuff. Staffords are not good swimmers, so take steps to protect them from falling into a swimming pool or spa. The Stafford"s exercise requirements can be satisfied with two or three half-hour to one-hour walks or playtimes daily. Engage his mind with training sessions or fun activities. Begin training the day you bring your Staffordshire Bull Terrier puppy home. He is intelligent and learns quickly, but he can be impulsive and stubborn. Forget strict and formal obedience training. For best results, be patient, firm, and consistent to develop the strongest bond with your Stafford. Always look for behaviors you can reward instead of punishing him for infractions. Harsh corrections can damage the dog"s self-confidence and personality. Regular training practice and social interaction will help ensure that you live together happily. A bored or lonely Stafford is destructive in his attempts to entertain himself. A Stafford is not generally a barker, but he is definitely vocal. This breed will entertain you with his snorts, snores, grunts, and groans, as well as his singing voice, often described as a yodel. If you are consistent and follow a schedule, housetraining comes easily to the Stafford. Crate training assists in this process and prevents your SBT puppy from chewing on things he shouldn"t or otherwise getting into trouble when you aren"t around to supervise. A crate also gives him a safe haven where he can retreat when he"s feeling overwhelmed or tired. Never use a crate as a place of punishment. Leash training is also important, especially since your Stafford will be a strong puller, small size notwithstanding. Good leash manners are essential to the state of your muscles, your own happiness, and your Stafford"s safety. Never walk him off leash any place that he might encounter unknown dogs or other animals. He has a strong prey drive and will give chase if not restrained. Early, frequent socialization is a must for this breed, especially if you want your SBT to be friendly toward other animals. Puppy socialization classes are a great start, but socialization shouldn"t end there. Visit many different dog-friendly stores, parks, and events. With proper training, consistency, and socialization, your Stafford will be a wonderful family member who protects and loves you unconditionally.
Recommended daily amount: 1 5/8 to 2 1/4 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. To avoid gastric dilatation volvulus, also known as bloat, withhold food and water for at least an hour after vigorous exercise. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference--the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your SBT in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.
The Staffordshire Bull Terrier has a short, smooth coat that lies close to the skin. It comes in red, fawn, white, black, or blue, or any of these colors with white, as well as brindle or brindle with white. The Stafford"s coat sheds annually and hair loss is minimal throughout the year. Dirt brushes out easily, and the coat dries quickly after a bath. Brush him weekly to remove dead or loose hair. Bathe as needed. This breed has little odor, so he usually doesn"t require frequent bathing. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Stafford"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, or as needed. If you can hear the nails clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and don"t get caught in the carpet and tear. Check the ears weekly to make sure there"s no debris, redness, or inflammation. Clean the ears as needed with a cotton ball and a cleanser recommended by your dog"s breeder or your veterinarian. Wipe around the outer edge of the ear canal, and don"t stick the cotton ball any deeper than the first knuckle of your finger. Begin accustomizing your Staffordshire Bull Terrier to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet--and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
The Stafford is suitable for families with children, but despite his much vaunted patience and gentleness, he should always be supervised in the presence of toddlers or young children. He can be rambunctious and may accidentally knock small children down. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any mouthing, biting, or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating and not to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Some Staffords get along well with other dogs and cats when they"re raised with them. As adults, they may require more of an adjustment period before they welcome the company of another dog. To ensure the best relationship, choose a dog of the opposite sex. Make introductions in a neutral area away from your home.
No information found

Standard Schnauzer
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.3

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 1,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.88

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.14

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.35

Dog Breed Group:  Working DogsHeight:  1 foot, 5 inches to 1 foot, 8 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  30 to 50 poundsLife Span:  13 to 16 years
The Standard Schnauzer is a medium-size dog who inspired early breeders to develop two more breeds who look just like him — the Miniature Schnauzer and the Giant Schnauzer. It"s no wonder breeders wanted to duplicate this dog in different sizes for different needs. Standard Schnauzers are not only highly intelligent and excellent family companions, they"re uniquely handsome, even aristocratic, in appearance. Renowned for their guarding abilities and devotion to their families, they"re also often described as a dog with a human brain. Squarely built, these dogs have stiff, wiry coats that shed little with minimal "doggy" odor. A hallmark of the breed is the face furnishings, which include arched eyebrows and a bristly mustache and beard. The high-set ears are carried erect when cropped but are otherwise V-shaped, carried forward with the inner edge of the ear close to the cheek. Standard Schnauzers typically carry themselves with a great deal of self-importance. They are agile and athletic, and excel in performance sports such as agility, tracking and herding. Highly versatile, they"re good hunters and have been used as retrievers both on land and in the water. They"re also excellent herders of sheep and cattle, one of their original jobs as an all-around farm dog. In fact, many Standard Schnauzers have earned American Kennel Club (AKC) herding titles. With their working dog heritage, they also make excellent watchdogs. Standard Schnauzers are territorial, quick to bark at any disturbance. They have a deep bark that sounds as though it should come from a much larger dog and are vigorous in carrying out their watchdog duties. Their personality is sometimes mischievous, always clever, and inevitably dignified. They learn quickly and want to please, which makes them great therapy dogs. And when socialized with children, they make an excellent and affectionate companion for the younger members of the family. The Standard Schnauzer"s highly developed senses, intelligence, trainability, courage, stamina, and resistance to adverse conditions have found many a place in a field that most would not expect — search and rescue. Many of the Standards have proven to be exceedingly good at this important work, and their smaller size enables them to search in areas that larger dogs can"t reach. Standard Schnauzers do have strong personalities, and can be stubborn. They have an uncanny way of determining your weaknesses and will take advantage of you whenever possible. If you"re not careful, they"ll rule the household; this is a breed that requires consistent and firm guidance from owners. With all of his innate skills and exceptional good looks, is it any wonder breeders felt one size was not enough? As the original model for both the Miniature and Giant Schnauzers, Standards are truly the foundation of a great legacy in dogs.
Standard Schnauzers are intelligent, but they can be stubborn. This can sometimes make them difficult to housetrain. Crate-training is recommended. Standard Schnauzers are protective of their homes and families. While they generally don"t bark without good reason, they will bark if they sense anything is threatening their homes and families. Standard Schnauzers are highly intelligent and become bored with repetitive tasks. They thrive on varied activities and exercise. Make sure you give your Standard Schnauzer both or he could become destructive and ill-tempered. Because of their intelligence and self-assurance, Standard Schnauzers will capitalize on any weaknesses in their people and could start "ruling the roost." Be consistent with your Standard Schnauzer, and make sure he knows you are the alpha dog in your house. When training, do not use harsh methods, which could make your Standard Schnauzer resentful. Schnauzers can be suspicious of strangers, including guests, until they know they are accepted by the family. Standard Schnauzers have a great deal of energy and require adequate exercise each day to prevent them from using that energy in destructive ways. Because one of their many jobs has been to catch rats, Standard Schnauzers should not be trusted with small, furry family pets, such as hamsters, guinea pigs, and gerbils. Most Standard Schnauzers seem to tolerate sharing their homes with cats, however, especially if they have been introduced to them at an early age. Standard Schnauzers are curious and fearless — a dangerous combination if you allow your dog to run off-leash in unfenced areas. Never buy a Standard Schnauzer from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments.
The Standard Schnauzer has a long history in his homeland of Germany. Based on paintings by Renaissance artists Rembrandt and Albrecht Durer, as well as a tapestry created in 1501 by Lucas Cranach the Elder, it"s evident dogs of this type have existed for several centuries. Schnauzers were used to guard farm families and livestock, herd cattle and sheep, get rid of vermin, and protect their owners as they traveled to market. German breeders took an interest in standardizing this breed in the mid-1800s. At that time, crosses were made with the gray Wolfspitz and black German Poodles to produce the distinctive texture and color of the breed"s hair. At around the same time, Standard Schnauzers were crossed with other breeds to develop first the Miniature Schnauzer and later, the Giant Schnauzer. In their early years and until the late 1800s, Standard Schnauzers were called Wirehaired Pinschers. They were first exhibited at the Third German International Show in Hanover in 1879, and the first-prize winner was a dog named Schnauzer. A breed standard was written in 1880 and the first specialty show was held at Stuttgart in 1890 with an entry of 93 dogs. By 1900, the breed was becoming known as the Schnauzer, thought to be both a reference to the breed"s unique muzzle (for which the German word is schnauze), which sports a beard and mustache, and to the name of the first winner in the show ring. The Bavarian Schnauzer Klub was formed in Munich in 1907. During World War I, the dogs were used to carry dispatches and aid Red Cross workers. They were also used in Germany for police work. Records indicate that some Standard Schnauzers were brought to the U.S. in the early 1900s by families who immigrated here, and by world travelers who fell in love with the breed in Germany. The breed wasn"t imported in great numbers, however, until after World War I. The Schnauzer Club of America was formed in 1925. In 1933, the club split to form the Standard Schnauzer Club of America (SSCA) and the American Miniature Schnauzer Club. At first, the breed was classified as a terrier in the U.S., which is how the Miniature Schnauzer continues to be organized. But Germans always regarded the Schnauzer as a working dog. So in 1945, the AKC reclassified the Standard Schnauzer and placed it in the Working group. Today, the Standard Schnauzer ranks 99th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
Males are ideally between 18 to 20 inches high at the shoulder and generally weigh 35 to 50 pounds. Females are ideally between 17 and 19 inches high at the shoulder and generally weigh 30 to 45 pounds.
The dignified Standard Schnauzer has above-average intelligence and is inquisitive, creative, and sometimes stubborn in the way he thinks. It takes an equally intelligent and creative person to stay a step ahead of him and you"ll need to train him with firmness and consistency. The Standard is affectionate and protective of family members. He"s territorial and will alert you to the presence of strangers with a deep bark. Once you welcome someone into your home, however, he"ll accept them as well. He loves to be the center of attention. As with every dog, Standard Schnauzers need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Standard Schnauzer puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Standard Schnauzers have very few health problems. Nonetheless it"s recommended that all breeding dogs be radiographed (x-rayed) clear of hip dysplasia and tested annually for eye disease. A breeder should be able to show you health clearances for both parents from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips and certification from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) that the eyes are normal.
The Standard Schnauzer is an adaptable dog and can live as comfortably in a city apartment as on a country farm, provided he gets enough exercise each day. Whatever his environment, he should live in the home with his people. A fenced yard is highly recommended for these dogs, who has been known to jump a six-foot fence. The Standard Schnauzer needs at least an hour of vigorous activity every day. He"s a high-energy dog, and should be walked briskly a minimum of three times a day, about 20 minutes each time. Or you could take him for two half-hour walks. Other good forms of exercise for this breed include swimming, playing fetch or Frisbee, and hiking. Begin training when your Standard Schnauzer is young, and continue to reinforce lessons throughout his life. He requires a trainer who"s patient, firm, and consistent and he responds best to positive reinforcement techniques such as food rewards, praise, and play. Although he"s intelligent and wants you to be happy, his idea of how things should be may outweigh any desire to please.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 2 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Standard Schnauzer in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Standard Schnauzer, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Standard Schnauzer"s outer coat is wiry, hard, and dense, with hairs that stand up from the skin. Beneath is a soft undercoat. On the back, the coat can be from 3/4 to 2 inches long. People tend to like to keep the coat on the ears, head, neck, chest, stomach, and under the tail closely trimmed, which means frequent trips to a groomer. Over the eyes and on the muzzle, the hair is left longer to form the eyebrows and beard. The hair on the legs is longer than that on the body. All furnishings (the longer hair on the head, legs, and tail) have a harsh texture. Soft, smooth, curly, wavy or shaggy hair that is too long or too short; an undercoat that is too sparse, and excessive or lack of furnishings are all considered faults in the show ring. Standard Schnauzers may be either pepper and salt or pure black. The pepper and salt coloring is a combination of black and white hairs, and white hairs banded with black. Pepper and salt coloring can range from dark iron gray to silver gray. Pepper and salt-colored Standard Schnauzers should have a gray undercoat, but a tan or fawn-colored undercoat is acceptable. It"s also desirable for the facial mask to be darker and to complement the coat color. Sometimes, the pepper and salt colorations fades out to a light gray or silver white in the eyebrows, whiskers, cheeks, under the throat, across the chest, under the tail, and on the legs and belly. Black Standard Schnauzers have a dark, rich color that isn"t discolored or mixed with any gray or tan hairs. The undercoat should also be black. As the dog ages or if he"s exposed to sunlight a great deal, the black may fade and become a bit discolored. Standard Schnauzers require a lot of grooming to look their best. You"ll need to brush the beard and legs daily to prevent tangles, and wash his face after every meal. A Standard Schnauzer"s coat usually must be hand-stripped every four to six months if you show your dog or like the look and feel of the proper coat, but pets can be clipped by your groomer. Be warned, however, that if his coat is clipped, instead of stripped, the texture will soften, and he"ll shed more. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Standard Schnauzer"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and won"t scratch your legs when your Standard Schnauzer jumps up to greet you. Begin accustoming your Standard Schnauzer to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Sturdy and energetic, Standard Schnauzers can be loyal and affectionate companions to children. They generally get along well with children of all ages, playing gently and kindly with younger ones. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how good-natured, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Standard Schnauzers aren"t especially fond of unknown dogs and may be aggressive toward them, but they can get along well with dogs and cats they"re raised with. Keep pet mice, rats, hamsters and similar pets safely away from him. His instinct to be a rat-catcher is still strong!
No information found

Sussex Spaniel
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 5,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 5]
Grouping total: 4.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 4.6

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 5,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 4.06

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 1,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.68

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 2,
"Intensity" : 1,
"Exercise Needs" : 2,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.46

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 1 inch to 1 foot, 3 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  35 to 45 poundsLife Span:  11 to 14 years
This rare and unusual spaniel with the happy tail remains true to his heritage as a hunting dog, and he"s often found in the field or participating in hunt tests. A deliberate hunter who moves at a moderate pace, he has lots of endurance and a "never give up" personality, characteristics that make him a good companion for people who might not be hunters but enjoy long walks or hikes with a nature-loving dog. If he"s not used as a hunting dog, he"ll be satisfied with such backyard prey as birds, butterflies, and insects. The Sussex stands out among spaniels for his voice. He"s vocal about letting the hunter know how he"s doing, and he carries that talkative tendency over to home life. The Sussex is likely to bark or howl at noises or visitors, so he makes a good watchdog. It"s important, however, to teach him when to stop barking so he doesn"t disturb the neighbors. Affectionate and companionable, the Sussex thrives in a home where he"s not left on his own for hours each day. He likes to follow his people around and enjoys the company of other dogs as well. A Sussex bonds strongly to family members and can become anxious and destructive if ignored. This gentle, even-tempered dog does well with children when he"s raised with them, but he"s best suited to a home with older children who understand how to interact with a dog. Sussex puppies can be injured if they"re dropped, hit or stepped on by young children, so supervision is a must. In general, Sussex Spaniels love people, but they can be possessive of their own family members, unwilling for other people to approach them. Early and frequent socialization is important to prevent this. Because of their sporting dog heritage, they usually get along well with other dogs, but if they"re not socialized to other dogs at an early age, they can be aggressive toward dogs they don"t know. The versatile Sussex is talented at many dog sports, including agility, tracking, and hunt tests, but he"s moderately challenging to train. He has what"s known as a soft personality, meaning he tends to be easygoing, but he can also be stubborn. Training a Sussex requires patience, kindness, encouragement, and a strong sense of humor. He responds well to praise and rewards but stops trying if he receives harsh corrections. Begin training as soon as you bring him home at 8 to 12 weeks of age, while he"s still amenable to training. Despite his medium size, the Sussex is strong and powerful, so it"s important for him to learn to listen to you before he becomes too hard to handle. Brush a Sussex daily to prevent mats from forming. Trim the feet and the inside of the ears monthly to keep them neat. The Sussex loves playing in water, so he"ll need a good rinse or a bath any time he goes for a swim in a stinky pond or lake, a chlorinated pool, or saltwater. To prevent ear infections, keep this breed"s floppy ears clean and dry. As a breed, the Sussex Spaniel has faced many challenges, including near extinction after World War II. It was only through the efforts of a dedicated handful of people that the breed survived. Although the Sussex is still uncommon, those who know him love him for his calm, even temper, deep howl, and social disposition.
Sussex Spaniels are known for stretching their back legs out behind them and dragging themselves forward, a behavior called kippering. It"s not a disorder and is nothing to worry about. Sussex Spaniels are barkers. Sussex Spaniels can make excellent companions for older children who understand how to interact with dogs. Sussex Spaniels are intelligent and can learn quickly, but they"re also stubborn and require a patient, consistent trainer. Sussex Spaniels need 20 to 30 minutes of exercise daily to keep them fit and healthy. They enjoy walks and hikes. Sussex Spaniels can easily become overweight if their eating habits aren"t managed. Sussex Spaniels shed moderately and should be brushed two or three times a week to keep loose hair under control and to prevent tangles from forming. Sussex Spaniels dislike being left alone for long periods and can become destructive or noisy if not given enough attention and exercise. Sussex Spaniels generally get along well with other pets and dogs, but if they aren"t exposed to lots of dogs during puppyhood, they can be aggressive toward dogs they don"t know.
The Sussex Spaniel was developed at an estate called Rosehill in Sussex County, England, probably during the mid-nineteenth century. Two men are credited with shaping the Sussex Spaniel into the dog it is today. The first was Moses Woolland, who after obtaining his first Sussex Spaniels in 1882 went out and successfully bred both show and field lines. His dogs were not exactly like the Sussex of today, but they were very similar. The second is Campbell Newington, who began breeding in 1887. Newington"s dogs were also similar to the Sussex Spaniel as it is today, and together both men began breeding dogs that were consistent in type and quality. The first breed standard was written during this time. For a time, the breed thrived, but after Woolland"s death Newington was alone in his efforts to keep the Sussex Spaniel from becoming forgotten. In 1909, however, J. E. Kerr became interested in the breed and began producing litters of his own. Without the efforts of these two men, the Sussex Spaniel would have disappeared completely. After World War I, the Sussex Spaniel saw a further decline in numbers and popularity. Newington whelped his last litter in 1921 and it seemed that the Sussex Spaniel might pass into extinction, but the breed hung on by its dewclaws. The privations of World War II was another stumbling block, when breeding almost ceased in England. The breed"s survival is mostly credited to the efforts of Joy Freer, who spent 60 years breeding and perfecting her lines. The first Sussex Spaniel arrived in the United States shortly before the Great Depression and more followed a few years later, just prior to World War II, but they were unsuccessful in attracting the attention of the public. In 1969, three Sussex Spaniels were imported to the United States and after that another 11 found their way to America. They remain rare, but through an understanding of the value of these gentle and cheerful spaniels, the breed has gained a bit of a respite from the threat of endangerment. Today, the Sussex Spaniel ranks 154th among the 157 breeds and varieties recognized by the American Kennel Club.
The Sussex Spaniel stands 13 to 15 inches at the shoulder and weighs 35 to 45 pounds.
The gentle and affectionate Sussex Spaniel is an excellent family companion. In the field, he"s full of energy and endurance, even though he"s not as fast moving as other sporting breeds. He"s friendly and cheerful but can be stubborn when it comes to training. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, a Sussex needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when he"s young. Socialization helps ensure that your Sussex Spaniel puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Like all dog breeds, the Sussex is prone to certain genetic or environmental diseases and conditions. While no dog is perfect and these ailments do not affect all Sussex Spaniels, it is imperative to do your research to find a Sussex who"s been bred with health in mind. A reputable breeder will be proud to discuss the steps she"s taken to prevent health problems and to show you the following health certifications for a puppy"s parents: Orthopedic Foundation for Animals clearances for hips, heart, and thyroid, and certification from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) that the eyes are normal. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following conditions are among those that may affect Sussex Spaniels: Pulmonic Stenosis: This is a congenital heart disease in which blood does not flow properly through the heart due to a narrowing of the region between the right ventricle and pulmonary artery. This obstruction in the pulmonary valve causes the right side of the heart to work harder, eventually enlarging. Without treatment, it can lead to heart failure. Treatment depends on the severity of the disease and ranges from regular monitoring by a veterinarian to medication to surgery. Patent Ductus Arteriosis (PDA): This common congenital heart disease is found in many different breeds. It occurs when a blood vessel called the ductus arteriosis, which connects the aorta and the pulmonary artery in a fetus, doesn"t close after birth. If it remains open, blood begins to flow backward into the lungs, causing fluid to accumulate and resulting in labored breathing, fainting, dizzy spells, coughing, heart murmurs, collapse and heart failure. Patent Ductus Arteriosis can easily be corrected surgically. Intervertebral Disc Disease (IVDD): Sussex Spaniels can be prone to back problems such as IVDD, which occurs when a disc in the spine ruptures or herniates and pushes upward into the spinal cord. This may be caused by moving or being picked up the wrong way, falling or jumping off furniture, or it can be an inherited condition. A ruptured disc is painful and can lead to weakness and temporary or permanent paralysis. Treatment includes anti-inflammatory medications, acupuncture or chiropractic, and surgery. Hip Dysplasia: This degenerative disease occurs when the hip joint is weakened due to abnormal growth and development and is found in many breeds of dogs. It affects approximately 42 percent of Sussex Spaniels but is rarely debilitating.
The Sussex needs 20 to 30 minutes of daily exercise to keep him in best condition. He"ll enjoy long walks or hikes, especially if they"re through wooded areas where he can hunt for birds. He"s a serious spaniel, not given to exuberant romps, but he enjoys spending time with his people in the great outdoors. He"s best suited to living indoors but should have access to a safely fenced yard where he can keep a watchful eye on birds, squirrels, and other wildlife. Training a Sussex can be a challenge. Members of this breed have a mind of their own. Sussex Spaniels are intelligent and learn quickly, but they need consistency and patience to see the training fully succeed. One area that needs to be addressed at a young age is barking. Unlike other spaniels, Sussex Spaniels let their voices ring out when hunting. That carries over into home life as well. They will bark when people come to the door or just for the joy of hearing it. If you don"t train your Sussex to bark in moderation, you will find yourself with a dog that barks at everything in excess. The Sussex is especially likely to bark and howl when left alone for long periods, so before acquiring one, consider whether you"ll be home frequently enough to keep him happy.
Recommended daily amount: 2 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Sussex Spaniels gain weight easily. To keep his weight at a normal level, feed your Sussex at specific times each day rather than leaving food out all the time. Measure food carefully, and cut back if it looks like he"s putting on the pounds. He should have a waist when you look down at him, and you should be able to feel his ribs but not see them. If they"re buried beneath rolls of fat, he needs to go on a diet. Dole out treats sparingly. Your Sussex will be just as happy to get a tiny-size training treat as a bigger biscuit. For more on feeding your Sussex, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Sussex Spaniel has an abundant coat that"s straight or slightly wavy but not curly. The tail and the legs down to the heel (called the hock) are adorned with moderate fringe of hair known as feathering. The ears are covered with soft, wavy hair, and the neck also has additional hair known as a frill. The coat color is a rich golden liver with no other color, markings or shades of liver. The Sussex Spaniel sheds moderately. Daily brushing helps keep the amount of loose hair to a manageable level, but you can get by with brushing the Sussex weekly. No trimming or clipping is required, but you may want to trim the hair on and around the feet to keep them looking tidy. Bathe as needed. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Sussex Spaniel"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and won"t scratch your legs when your Sussex jumps up to greet you. Begin accustoming your Sussex to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Sussex Spaniels have a calm demeanor and get along well with children, especially if they"re raised with them. As with most dogs, they"re best suited to homes with children that are at least six years old and understand how to interact with dogs. It"s never appropriate to leave dogs and young children alone together. They should always be supervised to prevent any ear biting or tail pulling on the part of either party. The Sussex generally gets along well with other pets, including cats, although he"s said to be a bit bossy. If Sussex aren"t socialized as pupsters, they may be aggressive toward dogs they don"t know, so don"t neglect this important stage of development. On the down side, a Sussex may be a little too interested in getting to know pet birds, if you know what we mean.
No information found

Swedish Vallhund
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 3,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.83

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.4

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.44

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.41

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.58

Dog Breed Group:  Herding DogsHeight:  11 inches to 1 foot, 1 inch tall at the shoulderWeight:  22 to 35 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Swedish Vallhund is energetic, playful and loving. Even better, he knows how to make you laugh and get you through any rough times you may be facing. Vallhunds will create games to entertain themselves and their people, but it’s better if you channel their brains and activity level more formally, through training, dog sports and activities such as hiking or making therapy visits.While he sounds ideal, with his medium size, athleticism, and happy personality, the Vallhund is not a breed for everyone. He can be a barker — at door-to-door salesmen, the dog next door or the rat beneath the floor — and his energy level makes him unsuitable for a couch potato owner. But if you are an active person and experienced dog owner who enjoys hiking or long walks and will appreciate this dog’s companionship in whatever you do; he’s definitely a dog to consider.The Vallhund is friendly toward others and readily accepts attention and treats from everyone he meets. He is highly intelligent and learns quickly, responding well to positive reinforcement techniques. This versatile breed excels in performance events such as agility, flyball, herding, nose work, obedience, rally, and tracking. He also has the skills to be a valuable assistant on a farm or ranch. The official breed standard is maintained by the Swedish Vallhund Club of America. 
The Swedish Vallhund bears a strong resemblance to the Cardigan and Pembroke Welsh Corgis, but genetically they do not appear to be all that closely related. A Swedish Vallhund’s tail may be long, stubby or bobbed. All tail types, natural or docked, are equally acceptable. The Vallhund has wedge-shaped head with medium-size ears that stand erect. Swedish Vallhunds do not respond well to harsh verbal or physical corrections. The Vallhund can become a nuisance barker, especially if he is frequently left alone. The Vallhund is a herding breed and may nip at children’s ankles as they run by. The Vallhund is not necessarily a good “first dog.” He requires plenty of socialization, training, and exercise to be a good companion.
The Swedish Vallhund — the name means “herding” or “shepherd” dog — is said to descend from dogs of the Vikings, but the truth is records of dog breeding don’t go back that far. What is known is they were farm dogs in Sweden, used to herd cattle and other livestock, as well as perform other tasks for the landowner such as keeping vermin down or barking an alarm.Known in their homeland as the Vastgotaspets, the dogs were first recognized as a breed by the Swedish Kennel Club in 1943. The United Kennel Club began registering the breed in 1996, and the American Kennel Club recognized it in 2007. 
The Vallhund stands 11.5 to 13.5 inches at the shoulder and weighs 22 to 35 pounds.
This is a confident, lively, and curious dog with an independent streak, but he’s loyal to his family and courageous in alerting them to the presence of any strangers or other perceived dangers. The Vallhund is calm and adaptable, making him suited to many different home environments as long as he gets plenty of daily exercise. He loves his people and wants to be with them as much as possible.Count on the Vallhund to keep you entertained. He is described as having a sense of humor and is clever at problem-solving or simply finding new uses for his toys.The Vallhund’s watchful nature makes him a great alarm dog. He also likes to bark just to let you know he’s in a good mood or to “chat” with you about your day. Teach him to limit his number of barks or to “speak” only on command so that he doesn’t disturb the neighbors.Begin training the Vallhund at an early age. He’s smart and loves to learn, especially if you make it fun for him. Show him what you want in a kind manner and be consistent to establish your leadership. Don’t be surprised if he “tests” you to see if you really mean what you say.The Vallhund is a herding breed, and it’s instinctive for him to nip at fast-moving objects. That’s not acceptable when he’s grabbing at a child’s pants leg, however, or chasing a bicyclist or kid on a skateboard. Correct this behavior with a stern “No” every time you see it. He will quickly learn which types of play are acceptable and which ones aren’t.Like every dog, the Vallhund needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds and experiences — ideally before he is four months old. Some Vallhunds can be shy or anxious and need extra attention to become good family dogs. Socialization helps to ensure that your Vallhund puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog, unafraid of strangers, children, other animals or being left alone when necessary.
Swedish Vallhunds are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they’re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Vallhunds will get any or all of these diseases, but it’s important to be aware of them if you’re considering this breed.Expect breeders to have up-to-date health clearances certifying that a puppy’s parents are free of eye disease and hip dysplasia. Clearances should be in the form of an eye exam by a board-certified veterinary ophthalmologist with the results registered with the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals and an OFA or Pennhip evaluation of the hips. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA website or the website of the Canine Health Information Center. Retinopathy is a hereditary eye disease that is known to affect the Swedish Vallhund. It causes degeneration of the retinal photoreceptor cells and may lead to complete vision loss.  
The Vallhund’s short legs belie his agility and speed. He corners like a race car and is an excellent agility competitor. He is sturdy and muscular and packs a big punch for his size.As a herding breed, he is bred to move flocks long distances. Even if he doesn’t do that for a living anymore, he still needs daily exercise in the form of a long walk or hike or training for a dog sport such as agility. If he gets the activity he needs, the Vallhund is happy in any environment, from city condo to country estate.With his short legs and long back, the Vallhund can be prone to back injuries if mishandled. Because their skeletal development is not yet complete, avoid letting puppies jump on and off furniture. Don’t pick them up without supporting both the front legs and the rear end.The Vallhund has a weather-resistant coat designed to withstand the harsh elements of Sweden, but that doesn’t mean he’s an outside dog. He is highly people-oriented and should never be shunted off to the backyard with little human interaction.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 1.5 cups of high-quality dry food daily, divided into two meals.Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference--the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.Keep your Vallhund in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test.First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.For more on feeding your Vallhund, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Vallhund is a double-coated Spitz breed with medium-length hair. The undercoat is soft and dense, protected by a harsh topcoat. A woolly, curly or fluffy coat is not correct for the show ring and can be more of a hassle to groom, but it doesn’t affect a Vallhund’s ability to be a great companion.The coat comes in a sable pattern of gray to red or combinations of colors in various shades. Ideally, the dog has a mask of lighter hair around the eyes, on the muzzle and under the throat; lighter shades on the chest, belly, rear end, lower legs and feet; and darker hair on the back, neck and sides. The breed stands out for light-colored “harness markings” on the back.A Vallhund’s coat doesn’t need any special trimming. In fact, a Vallhund in the show ring is meant to appear in an untrimmed, natural state.Give the Vallhund a thorough brushing every week. Get all the way down to the skin to remove dead hair and stimulate the sebaceous glands, which produce an oily substance that lubricates and protects hair and skin.Brush your Vallhund’s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath.To prevent painful tears and other problems, trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced at trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers.Check ears weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear.Begin accustoming your Vallhund to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Vallhunds usually love children, but their herding instincts can motivate them to nip at a youngster’s feet or ankles. They can learn quickly, however, that this behavior is not permitted.As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child.Vallhunds are usually friendly toward other pets in the household, including cats, so long as they have been socialized with them from an early age. They enjoy having a second or third dog in the family to play with, especially another Vallhund.
Some Vallhunds, purchased without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one or given up because their families can no longer keep them, are in need of adoption or fostering. Contact the national breed club or a local breed club and they can point you toward a Vallhund rescue organization.

Tibetan Mastiff
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 5,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 2]
Grouping total: 2.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.2

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 2,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.25

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 1,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 5,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 2,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.23

Dog Breed Group:  Working DogsHeight:  2 feet to 2 feet, 2 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  75 to 160 poundsLife Span:  10 to 14 years
With his noble appearance, long coat, appealing colors, and beautiful tail, the Tibetan Mastiff is sure to be a conversation starter and traffic stopper as you walk him down the street. But if that"s all you"re looking for in a dog, this is not the breed for you.   Before considering the drawbacks, here"s what we love about this breed. The Tibetan Mastiff is loving, gentle, patient, and understanding. His centuries of working closely with humans have made him very sophisticated in the ways he understands people. He"s a hard worker, protective of his family, fearless, and loyal. His large size and substance makes him a wonderful guard dog, and centuries of breeding for that specific task has perfected him as a protector. As attractive as that sounds, it"s essential to weigh carefully the other qualities that can make him a challenging proposition. This is an independent guardian breed who will not always look to you for guidance. He will enjoy your company and bond with you, but he won"t always obey you, especially in a situation in which he believes he"s right. The Tibetan Mastiff is stubborn and usually doesn"t do well in obedience or agility competitions. Tibetan Mastiffs are generally quiet dogs when their needs and living conditions are met, but if left outdoors at night they can be barkers. Of course there"s an easy solution: bring your dog inside. If you use a yard, make sure it"s well-fenced; Tibetan Mastiffs have been known to climb fences to escape. And be sure not to leave these dogs outside for very long because they may start to dig and become territorial and aggressive.   Under certain conditions, Tibetan Mastiffs are tolerant with children in their own families, especially if raised with them. But they"re generally not well suited to homes with young children. Tibetan Mastiffs can mistake the yelling, screaming, and playing of visiting children as a sign of aggression and often won"t allow your child"s friends to come visit. This territorial drive can affect not only your children"s social life but also your own. If you are a social person with many people coming and going, this breed is probably not for you, as the Tibetan Mastiff may try to limit the number of people allowed into the house. Socialization is essential for this breed. It"s important to take your Tibetan Mastiff puppy and adult dog to as many dog-friendly stores, parks, and events as possible. Let him meet new people, but understand if he"s wary of specific people. Tibetan Mastiffs have a strong instinct concerning people, and if they don"t get over their initial dislike of a particular person, there"s usually a reason. Tibetan Mastiffs cannot be walked off leash and should be taken on several different routes during their daily walks to prevent them from becoming territorial of their walking route. The Tibetan Mastiff can be a wonderful breed for the proper owner and home, but he can"t fit into just any lifestyle. If you"re interested in this breed, do your homework and talk to breeders and other Tibetan Mastiff owners.    One thing is certain: if you do acquire a Tibetan Mastiff, your life is sure to be an interesting adventure with this beautiful, loyal companion.    
Be mindful the your small, cute teddy bear of a puppy will grow into a 75 to 160 pound dog. The Mastiff"s size makes him unsuited for apartment living. Tibetan Mastiffs are usually active in the morning and evening. If your schedule doesn"t allow you to exercise them during these times, this may not be the breed for you. They are generally calm indoors. The Tibetan Mastiff should not be left to live outside. He"s a companion dog and thrives in the presence of his family. Because of his protective nature, a Tibetan Mastiff should never be walked off leash. Vary his walks so he doesn"t become territorial over a specific route. Tibetan Mastiffs are highly intelligent, independent, and stubborn, yet sensitive to human moods. They will become upset if you yell at or discipline your children or argue with your spouse. They enjoy your company but are never fawning. This is not the breed for people who wish to compete in dog sports such as agility or obedience. Tibetan Mastiffs who are left outdoors at night will bark to let you know they"re on the job — so don"t leave them outdoors at night. On the upside, they are generally quiet during the day. Tibetan Mastiffs shed little, except for once a year. a They require weekly brushing, except during their seasonal shed, when they should be brushed more frequently. The Tibetan Mastiff needs early socialization that should continue throughout his life. Without it, he can be inappropriately aggressive toward dogs and people he doesn"t know. Socialization helps him learn discrimination, which is essential for a guardian breed. The Tibetan Mastiff is not recommended for a timid or first-time owner. This breed needs a confident trainer who is consistent and firm but also loving. The Tibetan Mastiff is strong-willed and will test whether you really mean what you say. Tibetan Mastiffs can become bored without proper physical and mental stimulation. This can lead to destructiveness, barking, and other negative behaviors. If you"re interested in owning a Tibetan Mastiff, please bear in mind that you"ll lose at least a few items to his sharp teeth before he reaches three years of age. Tibetan Mastiffs can do well with children if they"re raised with them, but they can mistake the yelling, screaming, and playing of children as a sign of aggression that requires action on their part. They may not warm up to neighborhood kids. They are not recommended for homes with young children. Never buy a Tibetan Mastiff from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases and of sound temperament.
The Tibetan Mastiff originated, where else, in Tibet. Like so many breeds, he has little documented history from before the late 19th century, but he"s believed to have been around for many centuries. DNA evidence tells us that mastiff-type dogs originated in Tibet some 5,000 years ago, and the Tibetan Mastiff is no doubt a descendant of those dogs. They developed into two types: the Do-Khyi, who lived in villages or traveled with nomadic shepherds and functioned as flock guardians, and the larger Tsang-Khyi, which were often given to lamaseries, where they served as guardians for the Tibetan Buddhist monks, or lamas, who lived there. Little is known of the Tibetan Mastiff before 1800. In 1800, a Captain Samuel Turner mentioned the use of "huge dogs" in his memoir, An account of an Embassy to the Court of the Teshoo Lama in Tibet, but he gave no description of them. In 1847, the first dog from Tibet was imported to England and given to Queen Victoria as a gift from Lord Hardinge, the Viceroy of India. In 1873, England"s Kennel Club was formed and the Tibetan Mastiff was officially entered into the Stud Book as the Tibetan Mastiff, leaving its earlier title as "large dog from Tibet" behind. In 1874, the Prince of Wales, who later became King Edward VII, imported two more Tibetan Mastiffs to England and they were shown in 1875 at the Alexandra Palace Show. Tibetan Mastiffs continued to be imported occasionally into England and Europe, and the first Tibetan Mastiff breed club was formed in 1931. World War II put an end to breeding, and it wasn"t until 1976 that English breeders began importing the dogs again. The breed had a similar history in the United States. The late 1950s saw two Tibetan Mastiffs given to the President of the United States, but the dogs were taken to a farm and vanished from public scrutiny. It wasn"t until 1970 that several more Tibetan Mastiffs were imported into the United States and they became the foundation dogs of the United States line. The Tibetan Mastiff Club of America was founded in 1974, as was the American Tibetan Mastiff Association. The first show that the Tibetan Mastiffs appeared in was the first National Specialty Match in October 1979. The breed was only recently recognized by the American Kennel Club as a member of the Working Group in January 2007. Today, in Tibet, it"s difficult to find a purebred Tibetan Mastiff, but occasionally one can be found traveling with caravans and traders, and guarding livestock and homes.
A male Tibetan Mastiff stands at least 26 inches tall at the shoulder and weighs in the vicinity of 100 to 160 or more pounds; females are at least 24 inches tall at the shoulder and weigh 75 to 125 or more pounds.
The word "challenging" is frequently applied to this independent, stubborn breed. He"s intelligent and has a strong sense of self, expecting to be treated as an equal, not as a pet. He wants to please his people, but he also has his own agenda and must often be reminded of what he"s been asked to do. The Tibetan Mastiff is a loyal family guardian who takes his job seriously and is aloof or reserved toward strangers. Early socialization that continues throughout his life will help prevent him from becoming territorially aggressive. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Tibetan Mastiffs are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they can be subject to certain health conditions. Not all TMs will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. Canine Hip Dysplasia (CHD). This is a heritable condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint, eventually causing lameness or arthritis. X-ray screening for hip dysplasia is done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred. Hip dysplasia is hereditary, but it can be worsened by environmental factors, such as rapid growth from a high-calorie diet or injuries incurred from jumping or falling on slick floors. Elbow Dysplasia: This is a heritable condition common to large-breed dogs. It"s thought to be caused by different growth rates of the three bones that make up the dog"s elbow, causing joint laxity. This can lead to painful lameness. Depending on the severity of the problem, your vet may recommend surgery, weight management, or medication to control the pain. Panosteitis: Panosteitis can best be described as canine growing pains. It"s an inflammation of the long bones that affects young, large-breed dogs and causes lameness, which often shifts from leg to leg. The condition usually lasts from one to six months and eventually resolves with maturity. Any discomfort can be managed with pain medication. Osteochondrosis Dissecans (OCD): This orthopedic condition, caused by improper growth of cartilage in the joints, usually occurs in the shoulder, but may also affect the elbow. It causes a painful stiffening of the joint and can be detected in dogs as early as five to seven months of age. It may require surgical repair. Because it appears to be a hereditary condition, dogs with OCD should not be bred. Canine Inherited Demyelinative Neuropathy (CIDN): This is an inherited condition that is found in Tibetan Mastiff puppies by the time they are six weeks of age. The condition affects the nervous system and causes weakness in the rear legs that eventually progresses to complete paralysis. There is no treatment, but selective breeding has greatly reduced the incidence of CIDN. Autoimmune Hypothyroidism: This common endocrine disorder, which usually affects middle-aged and older dogs, is caused by a deficiency of thyroid hormone. Signs include weight gain, flaky skin, and lack of energy. Once diagnosed, hypothyroidism is easily managed with daily medication, which must continue throughout the dog"s life. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition.In Tibetan Mastiffs, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips, elbows, and thyroid. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than two years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old.
The Tibetan Mastiff is a companion dog who should live indoors, with access to a large, securely fenced yard where he can exercise. A small yard or dog run isn"t sufficient for his needs. His heavy coat makes him unsuited to life in a hot, humid climate, although he can tolerate dry heat. During hot weather, he should always have access to shade and fresh water whenever he"s outdoors. The Tibetan Mastiff"s exercise requirements can be satisfied with 20 to 30 minutes of play in the yard or a half-hour walk. He"ll enjoy having another dog to play with, preferably one who comes close to his size. Tibetan Mastiff puppies grow more quickly than smaller breeds, but they aren"t physically mature until they"re more than a year old. To prevent orthopedic damage, limit exercise to free play in the yard, and avoid long walks until your puppy is a year old. Begin training the day you bring your Tibetan Mastiff puppy home. They are intelligent and learn quickly, but their independent and stubborn nature means that strict and formal obedience training doesn"t bring the best results. Be patient, firm, and consistent to develop the strongest bond with your Tibetan Mastiff. Always look for behaviors you can reward instead of punishing him for infractions. Regular training practice and social interaction will help ensure that you live together happily. A bored or lonely Tibetan Mastiff is more destructive and noisy than you can imagine. Housetraining comes easily to the Tibetan Mastiff. Crate training assists in this process and prevents your puppy from chewing on things he shouldn"t or otherwise getting into trouble when you aren"t around to supervise. A crate also gives him a safe haven where he can retreat when he"s feeling overwhelmed or tired. A crate should never be used as a punishment. Leash training is also important, especially since your Tibetan Mastiff will eventually weigh up to 160 pounds or more and be able to pull you where he wants to go. Tibetan Mastiffs should never be walked off leash and having good leash manners is essential to both the state of your muscles and your happiness. Socialization is a must for this breed. Not only can Tibetan Mastiffs be overly dominant toward other dogs, they tend to become overly protective of their home and family. Puppy socialization classes are a great start, but socialization shouldn"t end there. Visit many different dog-friendly stores, parks, and events. Invite different people to your home on multiple occasions so your Tibetan Mastiff learns that others can come onto your property and his territory. With the proper training, consistency, and socialization, your Tibetan Mastiff can be a wonderful family member who guards, protects, and loves you unconditionally.
Recommended daily amount: 4 to 6 or more cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. To avoid gastric dilatation volvulus, also known as bloat, withhold food and water for at least an hour after vigorous exercise. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Tibetan Mastiff in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Tibetan Mastiff, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Tibetan Mastiff has a double coat with a long, thick, coarse-textured topcoat and a heavy, soft, woolly undercoat. The undercoat is thinner during warmer months. The hair is hard and straight, never curly, wavy, or silky. A heavy mane covers the neck and shoulders, and the tail and britches (the upper thighs) have a heavy coat and feathering. Males generally have more coat than females, including a thicker mane around the neck and shoulders. The coat comes in black, brown, gold, and blue, with or without tan markings above and around the eyes, on the side of the muzzle, on the throat, and on the lower part of the front forelegs, the inside of the rear legs, the breeches and the underside of the tail. Some Tibetan Mastiffs have small white markings on the chest and feet but nowhere else on the body. The undercoat may be lighter shades of the dominant color or gray or tan on black and tan dogs. Tibetan Mastiffs with sable or brindle coats are faulted in the show ring, but their color doesn"t affect their ability to be a companion or guardian. The Tibetan Mastiff sheds little and may or may not shed seasonally, depending on the climate in which he lives. Brush him one to three times a week with a wire slicker brush to remove dead or loose hair. Be sure to check for tangles or mats in the mane, breeches, and tail, where the coat is heaviest. Bathe as needed. This breed has little odor, so he usually doesn"t require a bath more than once a month. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Tibetan Mastiff"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, or as needed. If you can hear the nails clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and don"t get caught in the carpet and tear. If the feet need to be tidied up with trimming, the best time to do it is when you are clipping the nails. Check the ears weekly to make sure there"s no debris, redness, or inflammation. Clean the ears as needed with a cotton ball and a cleanser recommended by your dog"s breeder or your veterinarian. Wipe around the outer edge of the ear canal, and don"t stick the cotton ball any deeper than the first knuckle of your finger. Begin getting your Tibetan Mastiff used to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
The Tibetan Mastiff is suitable for families with older children, but he can be too large to safely spend much time around toddlers. He would never mean to hurt them, but he could easily knock them over or step on them. Make it a rule that children are never to run and scream in a Tibetan Mastiff"s presence. The noise and activity can excite him, and he"s simply too big to be allowed to chase children or play roughly with them. He may also feel the need to protect "his" children from other kids, especially if they"re wrestling or otherwise appear to be fighting. Always supervise play so that he knows you"re in charge. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Tibetan Mastiffs get along well with other dogs and cats when they"re raised with them. As adults, they may require more of an adjustment period before they welcome the advent of another dog.
No information found

Tibetan Spaniel
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 1,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.25

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.32

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.35

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  From 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  9 to 15 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Tibetan Spaniel is a small dog with a long history. Bred in Tibetan Buddhist lamaseries to be companions and alarm dogs, they were popular gifts to foreign dignitaries. Today the little canine ambassadors are still prized as companions, thanks to their sweet, smart, and attentive nature. Said to resemble a little lion, a powerful Buddhist symbol, he retains the watchfulness bred into him centuries ago and can be aloof toward strangers, but he"s a fond and friendly family companion. Tibbies, as they"re nicknamed, are active enough to enjoy dog sports such as agility, but not so demanding of exercise that they"ll run you ragged. Their portable size makes them suited to any home, from apartment to estate, as long as they have plenty of human attention. When they"re not cuddling with their people, Tibbies enjoy a high perch that allows them to see everything that"s going on. They"ll climb on whatever piece of furniture gives them the best view, giving them the reputation of being catlike. Like many small dogs, they prefer being approached at their own level rather than having someone looming over them. They"re highly intelligent and take well to training when it"s accompanied by positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards. Tibetan Spaniels are sensitive to the moods and needs of their families and they"re happy to try and meet them. This loving breed is uncommon, but he"s the ideal match for the right homes.
Although Tibetan Spaniels can learn quickly, they may be stubborn when it comes to obeying commands. Tibetan Spaniels shed small amounts year-round and need weekly brushing to get rid of dead hair. Although Tibetan Spaniels are affectionate toward and protective of children, they"re better suited for homes with older children because they can be injured during rough play. Tibetan Spaniels generally get along well with other dogs and pets. They do well in homes with multiple dogs. Tibetan Spaniels thrive when they"re with their families. They"re not recommended for homes where they"ll receive little attention or will be left alone for long periods. Barking can become a favorite pastime of Tibetan Spaniels if they"re bored. They"ll also bark when people come to the door or when they hear something suspicious. The upside is, they make great watchdogs. Tibetan Spaniels only need moderate exercise and are quite happy with a daily walk or free play in a fenced yard. Tibetan Spaniels must be walked on leash to prevent them from running off to explore. Yards should be fenced. The Tibetan Spaniel is fairly rare, so if you"re buying a puppy, it may take a while to find a good breeder, and once you do, there may be a wait for puppies to be available. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments.
The Tibetan Spaniel is an ancient breed from Asia. Depictions of small dogs with pushed-in faces and lionlike coats date back centuries in China and Tibet. It"s believed that Buddhist monks, known as lamas, bred the little dogs to sound the alarm if anyone approached the lamasery. With the ruff of thick fur around their neck and the richly plumed tail, they were said to resemble little lions. In Buddhist symbology, lions represent Buddha"s triumph over violence and aggression, so dogs with a lionlike appearance were popular. The dogs were frequently given as gifts to ambassadors and other notables, with dogs from those countries being received in return. Thus the Tibetan dogs made their way to the courts of China and Japan, where they no doubt interbred with other small Asian dogs. Today"s Tibetan Spaniel probably shares a common ancestry with the Japanese Chin and the Pekingese. Often bred by Tibetan villagers as well as lamas, early dogs of this type came in a wide range of sizes. The smallest, most prized puppies were given to the lamaseries where they were probably bred with the more elegant dogs that arrived as gifts from China. During the late 19th century, the first Tibetan Spaniel was brought to England by Mrs. McLaren Morris. More arrived in the 1920s, courtesy of Dr. Agnes R. H. Greig, who sent some of the dogs to her mother. The breed gained some popularity, but its foothold in England was almost completely wiped out during World War II. In 1947, after several successful breedings and importations, the breed began to recover in England. In 1958, The Tibetan Spaniel Association was formed and in 1960 England"s Kennel Club recognized the breed. The first known litter in the United States was born in 1965, to parents imported from Tibet by a Mr. Harrington. Thanks to Leo Kearns, sexton of Trinity Lutheran Church in New Haven, Connecticut, the Tibetan Spaniel began attracting notice. Kearns had a Tibbie puppy, and his parishioners were quite taken with her. He imported a male, and the puppies the two dogs produced were soon placed in doting homes. Among those enthusiastic new owners was Mrs. Jay Child, who made it her mission to see the breed established in the U. S. The Tibetan Spaniel Club of America was founded in 1971, with Child as president. The American Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1984. Despite his charm, the Tibetan Spaniel is still pretty rare, ranking 101st in popularity among the breeds and varieties registered by the American Kennel Club.
Tibetan Spaniels stand about 10 inches high at the shoulder and weigh 9 to 15 pounds.
Trusting and affectionate toward family members, Tibetan Spaniels may be aloof toward strangers, although never aggressive. True to their heritage, they make excellent watchdogs and will bark to alert you of anything that seems unusual. Tibbies seem to be especially responsive to their people"s moods and feelings. As loving as they are, however, they"re independent thinkers and won"t always obey, especially if they think they know better or don"t see any good reason to do as you ask. As with all dogs, Tibetan Spaniels need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Tibetan Spaniel puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Tibetan Spaniels are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they can get certain conditions. Not all Tibetan Spaniels will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog"s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Tibetan Spaniels, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for patellas (knees) and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that the eyes are normal. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following problems are not common in the breed, but they may occur: Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA) is a degenerative eye disorder. Blindness caused by PRA is a slow process resulting from the loss of photoreceptors at the back of the eye. PRA is detectable years before the dog shows any signs of blindness. A reputable breeder will have their dogs eyes certified on a yearly basis. Patellar Luxation, also known as "slipped stifles," this is a common problem in small dogs. It is caused when the patella, which has three parts — the femur (thigh bone), patella (knee cap), and tibia (calf) — is not properly lined up. This causes lameness in the leg or an abnormal gait, sort of like a skip or a hop. It is a condition that is present at birth although the actual misalignment or luxation does not always occur until much later. The rubbing caused by patellar luxation can lead to arthritis, a degenerative joint disease. There are four grades of patellar luxation, ranging from grade I, an occasional luxation causing temporary lameness in the joint, to grade IV, in which the turning of the tibia is severe and the patella cannot be realigned manually. This gives the dog a bowlegged appearance. Severe grades of patellar luxation may require surgical repair.
Tibbies are housedogs. They thrive on spending time with their people, and they"re not suited to living outdoors or in a kennel. Because they may run off to explore, yards must be fenced and they should be walked on leash. Intelligent and willing to please, Tibetan Spaniels can be easy to train, but that doesn"t necessarily mean they"ll always listen to you. They have a mind of their own and will ignore commands if they don"t feel like obeying. For best results, begin training early and be consistent. Some Tibetan Spaniels are yappy and some aren"t, but they"ll generally bark when someone comes to the door or when they hear or see anyone or anything unusual. With patience and consistency, you can teach them to stop barking after they"ve briefly sounded the alarm. If you live in an apartment with noise restrictions, however, this may not be the breed for you. Like all dogs, the Tibetan Spaniel needs reguar exercise, but he doesn"t need a ton of it. Usually a good playtime in the backyard or one or two walks in a day will fit the bill. Tibetan Spaniels are generally easy to housetrain, but crate training is strongly recommended. It will make housetraining easier and keep your Tibetan Spaniel from chewing things while you"re not there to supervise. The crate is a tool, not a jail, however, so don"t keep your Tibetan Spaniel locked up in it for long periods. The best place for a Tibetan Spaniel is with you.
Recommended daily amount: 3/4 to 1 cup of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Tibetan Spaniel in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Tibetan Spaniel, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Tibetan Spaniel has a silky double coat that"s smooth on the face and the front of the legs and moderately long on the rest of the body. The ears, tail, and backs of the forelegs and buttocks have longer hair, and a mane of long hair (sometimes referred to as a shawl) surrounds the neck. The Tibbie"s coat can be any color or mixture of colors. Weekly brushing will keep your Tibetan Spaniel"s coat free of loose hair. Expect them to shed small amounts year-round, with a heavier shed once or sometimes twice a year. Bathe them as needed, usually every 6 to 8 weeks. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Tibetan Spaniel"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition, don"t get caught in the carpet and tear, and don"t scratch your legs when your Tibetan Spaniel enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. Start grooming your Tibetan Spaniel when he"s a puppy to get him used to it. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Tibetan Spaniels are affectionate and protective of children, but because they"re small, they can be injured easily by rough handling, so they"re best suited to homes with children who are at least 6 years old and know to be gentle and not to tease. As with any dog, always teach children how to approach and touch your Tibetan Spaniel, and supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear pulling from either party. Tibetan Spaniels usually get along well with other dogs and cats. Most enjoy having another dog as a companion.
No information found

Tibetan Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.8

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 1,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 2,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.09

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.35

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  1 foot, 2 inches to 1 foot, 4 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  20 to 24 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
Born in Tibet, Tibetan Terriers were bred in lamaseries to be companions not only to the holy men who raised them but also to nomadic herdsmen as they wandered the high plains with their flocks. The shaggy, medium-size dogs were thought to bring good luck, so they were never sold but only given as gifts or thanks for favors. People who live with the breed today understand just what a gift they are.The breed"s name is a bit of a misnomer, as the Tibetan Terrier is not a true terrier at all. He was given the name on account of his size, but he doesn"t share the terrier"s tendency to go to ground (dig for vermin) or the typically sharp-edged terrier temperament. Lively and fun loving, he is, but those characteristics are tempered with a sweet and kind nature. Beneath a fall of hair, his eyes twinkle with good humor.Like all dogs, Tibetan Terriers thrive on human companionship. It"s no wonder they excel as therapy dogs. While they"re not demons for activity, they are active enough to compete in agility and do well in obedience and rally. Hearkening back to their history as lamasery alarm dogs, they are alert to anything different and make super watchdogs. Their gentle demeanor doesn"t suit them to work as guard dogs, however.It"s not unusual for Tibetan Terriers to be reserved with strangers, but they shower affection on their people. They can adapt to life in many different types of households and are a good choice for families with older children who understand how to treat dogs. With their protective double coat and large, flat, round feet to provide traction — in much the same way as snowshoes — they"re well suited to homes in snowy climates.The Tibetan Terrier is a pleasant dog who enjoys life and loves people. He"ll adapt to life with a couch potato or an active family, always approaching every day with an endearing sense of humor and a sparkle in his eye.
Tibetan Terriers are wonderful family dogs but are best suited for homes with school-age children who know how to treat a dog properly. Tibetan Terriers generally do well with dogs and other pets, especially if they have been raised with them. The Tibetan Terrier requires frequent brushing and a bath at least once per month. Tibetan Terriers make great watchdogs and will bark when they see or hear anything unusual. If they get daily exercise, Tibetan Terriers can do well in apartments or condos. Tibetan Terriers thrive on human companionship and do best in homes where they get plenty of attention and aren"t left alone for long periods. Barking is a favorite pastime for a Tibetan Terrier. He"ll bark when people come to the door, when he sees or hears something unusual, or just out of boredom. Tibetan Terriers require daily exercise and will enjoy a couple of 15-minute walks or one longer walk. The Tibetan Terrier can be easy to train with positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from a puppy mill, a pet store, or a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and who breeds for sound temperaments.
With its mountainous terrain, Tibet is sometimes referred to as the Roof of the World. It was in that harsh, high, remote land that the Tibetan Terrier was created. Prized as companions, the dogs were raised by Buddhist monks, known as lamas, from whom they took their name Holy Dog. But the shaggy, medium-size dogs weren"t limited to life in the lamaseries where they were born. Considered to be luck bringers, they traveled the high plateaus with nomadic herdsmen, guarding their tents. Fearful of tempting fate by "selling" their luck, neither the lamas nor the herdsmen ever sold the dogs. Instead, they were given as gifts in return for favors or services or presented to officials as a mark of esteem.The Tibetan Terrier might have remained an obscure breed if not for a grateful Tibetan man who gave a Tibetan Terrier to Dr. Agnes R. H. Greig, who had saved his wife"s life. Dr. Greig named her new puppy Bunti and became a fan of the breed. Eventually, she acquired a male, also as a gift, and began a breeding program, establishing the Lamleh line of Tibetan Terriers. Being neither a sporting dog nor a mix, the breed was given the name Tibetan Terrier, despite the fact that it wasn"t a true terrier in either instinct or temperament but merely resembled one in size.A breed standard was created by the Kennel Club of India in 1930, and the Tibetan Terrier was officially recognized by England"s Kennel Club in 1937. The first Tibetan Terrier imported into the United States, Gremlin Cortina, arrived in 1956. Owned by Dr. Henry S. and Alice Murphy, she was so beloved by them that she inspired Alice Murphy to establish her own kennel, Lamleh of Kalai. The Tibetan Terrier Club of America was formed in 1957, and the American Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1973. Today the Tibetan Terrier ranks 95th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
Tibetan Terriers stand 14 to 16 inches at the shoulder and weigh 20 to 24 pounds.
The Tibetan Terrier is smart, pleasant, and affectionate. Gentle but fun loving, he"s dedicated to his family but may be cautious or reserved toward strangers. Puppies are active and lively — what puppy isn"t? — but settle down as they reach maturity.True to their heritage, they make wonderful watchdogs and will bark an alert if they see or hear anything suspicious. They don"t like to be left alone for long periods, preferring the company of the people they love. Tibetan Terriers are known for adaptability and a sense of humor.Like every dog, Tibetan Terriers need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Tibetan Terrier puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Tibetan Terriers are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they can be subject to certain health conditions. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA) is a degenerative eye disorder eventually causes blindness from the loss of photoreceptors at the back of the eye. PRA is detectable years before the dog shows any signs of blindness. Fortunately, dogs can use their other senses to compensate for blindness, and a blind dog can live a full and happy life. Just don"t make it a habit to move the furniture around. Reputable breeders have their dogs" eyes certified annually by a veterinary ophthalmologist and do not breed dogs with this disease. Lens Luxation is an inherited disorder in which the lens is improperly positioned in the eye. The displacement can be partial or complete. It"s sometimes treatable with medication or surgery, but in severe cases the eye may need to be removed. Hip Dysplasia is a condition in which the femur doesn"t fit snugly into the pelvic socket of the hip joint. Hip dysplasia can exist with or without clinical signs. Some dogs exhibit pain and lameness on one or both rear legs. As the dog ages, arthritis can develop. Screening for hip dysplasia can be done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs that have hip dysplasia shouldn"t be bred. If your dog displays signs of hip dysplasia, talk to your vet. Medication or surgery can help.
Tibetan Terriers are adaptable dogs at home in a variety of households, from condos to castles. They should live indoors with their people, not stuck out in a backyard or kennel.Once they"ve matured, they are just as happy being couch potatoes as they are active family dogs. Like any dog, an adult Tibetan Terrier requires daily exercise to stay healthy and happy, but he"ll be satisfied with a couple of 15-minute walks daily or one longer walk. Naturally, puppy and adolescent Tibetan Terriers are filled with energy and excitement and require higher levels of stimulation and exercise.Although it"s nice for a Tibetan Terrier to have a securely fenced yard where he can play, it"s not a great idea to leave him out there for long periods. A bored Tibetan Terrier is a barker, and a really bored Tibetan Terrier is an escape artist who"s perfectly capable of climbing, jumping, or digging his way over or under a fence.Housetraining can take time, but you"ll be successful if you"re patient and give your Tibetan Terrier a regular schedule and plenty of opportunities to potty outdoors, praising him when he does so. Crate training is strongly recommended. It will make housetraining easier and keep your Tibetan Terrier from chewing things while you are away. The crate is a tool, not a jail, however, so don"t keep your Tibetan Terrier locked up in it for long periods. The best place for a Tibetan Terrier is with you.TTs are generally amiable, but sometimes they have their own agenda. Keep training fun, be consistent, and use positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards.
Recommended daily amount: 1 1/8 to 1 3/8 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals.How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.For more on feeding your Tibetan Terrier, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Tibetan Terrier is protected by a double coat: a soft, woolly undercoat and an abundant topcoat with fine hair that can be wavy or straight. The long hair stops just short of the ground, enough that you can see light beneath the dog"s body. The hair often falls in a natural part along the spine. The Tibetan Terrier comes in a range of colors and patterns, including white, gold, tricolor, brindle, silver, black, and more.That long coat requires daily brushing during adolescence as the coat changes to keep it free of tangles. Once the adult coat has come in, by approximately 18 months of age, you can get by with grooming one to three times a week. Grooming tools you"ll need include a pin brush, a metal "greyhound" comb, ear powder, and a spray bottle for misting the coat.Mist the coat with a mixture of water and conditioner as you brush to avoid damaging the hair. Be sure to brush all the way down to the skin. Simply running the brush over the top of the coat won"t ensure that you find and remove any mats or tangles. Check frequently for mats behind the ears, on the chest and belly, and at the areas where the legs and tail intersect with the body. Using ear powder to make the hair less slippery, pluck excess hair in the ears, and trim the hair between the footpads. After you"re finished brushing, go over the coat with the comb to remove any loose or dead hair. You can also use it for the hair on the face.If all this grooming becomes too much for you, it"s kinder and less work to keep your TT in a cute puppy clip. You"ll both be happier. Whatever his coat length, you"ll probably want to bathe your Tibetan Terrier at least monthly. He may need a bath more often if he plays outside frequently and gets dirty.Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Tibetan Terrier"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar build-up and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better. Trim his nails once or twice a month, as needed. If you can hear the nail clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition, don"t get caught in the carpet and tear, and don"t scratch your legs when your Tibetan Terrier enthusiastically jumps up to greet you.Begin accustoming your Tibetan Terrier to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
Tibetan Terriers love kids and can match their energy levels all day long, but they"re a little rambunctious for households with children under the age of 6 years.Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.Tibetan Terriers usually get along well with other dogs and cats, especially if they"re introduced to them in puppyhood.
No information found

Toy Fox Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.3

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.32

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.54

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  8 inches to 11 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  3 to 7 poundsLife Span:  13 to 14 years
The Toy Fox Terrier (TFT) was developed in the United States, making him one of only a few breeds that are truly "All American." He was created from small Smooth Fox Terriers bred with several toy breeds — including Chihuahuas and Manchester Terriers — to set breed size. He"s a true terrier, with fire, heart and spirit to go out in the field hunting squirrel, and a true toy dog, a diminutive, loving companion who will curl up on the sofa and watch TV with his people. Toy Fox Terriers are highly intelligent. They housetrain easily as puppies and their small size makes them suited to using a canine litter box or housetraining pad. Obedience and other canine activities come easily to them as well, perhaps a vestige of their heritage. TFTs did acrobatics, walked tightropes and performed other circus dog tricks in the small dog and pony shows that once traveled the country. Today, they are shown in conformation and do quite well in obedience and agility trials, rally, and flyball. A hardy breed, Toy Fox Terriers can be expected to live into their teens, remaining active into old age. Toy Fox Terriers are extremely loyal to and protective of their family. They make excellent watchdogs with a large bark that belies their size. They are persistent in their protection efforts, making smart burglars decide to take on a less noisy target. This dog bonds tightly with his family and demands to be included in all activities. Sometimes you might question whether the Toy Fox Terrier considers himself a dog. He has abundant energy and is eager to please, but has a mind of his own that makes him insist on rights and privileges given to other family members, such as sleeping on the bed. His intense loyalty to his family can make him aloof with strangers, but socialization and training to accept strangers should help your dog to realize there is no danger from visitors you allow in your home. The Toy Fox Terrier until recently had been only a recognized breed in the United Kennel Club (UKC), but the American Kennel Club (AKC) and the Canadian Kennel Club (CKC) have now granted registration and full show status to the breed. This will give the TFT many more opportunities to gain fans and admirers for his lively disposition, loyalty, spirit, and intelligence, not to mention his sleek good looks. People who have been owned by this breed feel that their family is not complete without one around.
The Toy Fox Terrier is not a suitable companion for all children. While a sturdy little dog, they cannot tolerate excessive rough handling, especially as they are prone to broken legs. Terrier instinct may cause it to chase small animals, and thereby will need close supervision if outdoors off-leash with out a fence. Your dog should never be off-leash in an area where you cannot contain him should the need arise. Being terriers they may not do well with smaller pets in the household such as hamsters, mice and gerbils. They are a small dog but do not realize this; they sometimes challenge other dogs much larger than themselves. Supervised interaction with larger dogs is advisable. Beneath the cute exterior of your TFT puppy can reside the heart of a tyrant. Be sure to train your puppy early to be a responsible and well-behaved member of your family. Most Toy Fox Terriers would prefer to share your bed with you. However, jumping from such heights, especially when a puppy, can cause broken bones. Teaching your TFT to sleep in his own bed on the floor is a safer route. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
Terrier breeds have been documented in England as far back as the 1500s. One of those breeds was the Smooth Fox Terrier, developed to rout foxes from their dens during the hunt. The Smooth Fox Terrier had always been widely divergent in size, with some dogs weighing about 20 pounds while others were as small as 7 pounds. These runts were often more prized than the larger dogs as they seemed to be feistier and more willing to jump into the fray whether it be ratting, hunting other game or defending the homestead. The United Kennel Club began to register Smooth Fox Terriers in 1912. The smaller dogs were registered along with the larger ones as Smooth Fox Terriers. In the mid- 1920s, fanciers of the smaller dogs petitioned the UKC to make the smaller dogs a separate breed, which was finally accomplished in 1936. The breed was registered as the Toy Fox Terrier. The TFT was granted American Kennel Club recognition in 2003. For many years there was a debate among breeders regarding size, some wanted a larger dog; others wanted the dog to remain a toy. Some fanciers introduced Toy Manchester and Chihuahua blood into the breed to help fix the size. This move upset other breeders who did not want the contamination of other breeds in the gene pool. The UKC agreed that the dog should remain a toy and that other breeds should not be introduced into the gene pool. The Toy Fox Terrier stud book was closed by the UKC on August 31, 1960 so no more crossing of breeds could be done.
The AKC standard defines size by height. Height should be between 8.5 to 11.5 inches with 9 to 11 inches preferred. Weight ranges from about 3.5 to 7 pounds.
Loyal, protective, and smart, the TFT loves his people and wants to be involved in everything they do. He"s a superb watchdog and will alert you to the approach of guests and strangers, as well as to all the goings-on in the neighborhood. Personalities vary, ranging from couch potato to live wire. As with every dog, the TFT needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your TFT puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Toy Fox Terriers are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all TFTs will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In TFTs, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Demodectic Mange: This is a skin disease caused by a microscopic parasitic mite. All dogs have Demodectic mites in small numbers in their hair follicles. In some dogs, the mites proliferate and large numbers inhabit the hair and skin causing the dog to have a moth eaten appearance. Demodectic mange may be localized in one or two spots or generalized over the entire body. Juvenile onset Demodicosis generally occurs in dogs 3 to 13 months of age. The first sign is a thinning of the hair around the eyelids, lips, corners of the mouth and the front legs. It is sometimes confused with ringworm. Adult onset Demodicosis occurs in dogs more than 5 years old and can be associated with internal disease or cancer. Patellar Luxation: This is a dislocation of the kneecap (patella). It may dislocate to the inside (medial) or the outside (lateral) of the leg or it may go both directions. It can be congenital (present at birth) or caused by an injury. Patellar luxation can be mild with few or no symptoms or severe with intense pain and limping. Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease: Generally a disease of small breeds, it can be confused with hip dysplasia. Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease is due to aseptic death of the head of the femur. This causes wearing and promotes arthritic changes, at which point it can be difficult to distinguish if the damage was due to hip dysplasia or Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease. Von Willebrand"s Disease (VWD): Canine von Willebrand"s Disease is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. Affected dogs are more likely to bleed abnormally, similar to symptoms of hemophilia. This can lead to life threatening situations in case of accidental injury, spaying, or neutering. Because it is a recessive genetic disorder, carriers will not show signs of the disease but if bred to another carrier will pass the disorder to their offspring. Congenital Hypothyroidism with Goiter (CHG): Affected puppies do not move around as much as normal pups, and their head may appear large in comparison with their body. If they survive as long as three weeks, the eyes do not open, the ear canal remains very small, and the hair coat is abnormally bristly. By two weeks of age, a swelling on the underside of the neck can be felt and it continues to enlarge. Delay in lengthening of bones in legs, spine and face causes dwarfism. Eventually, even with treatment, the goiter constricts the airway. Affected puppies usually die or are euthanized by the age of 3 weeks. Carrier status does not affect the pet that is spayed/neutered. It is only when breeding that carrier dogs pass the disease to their puppies.
Toy Fox Terriers do well in smaller living spaces such as apartments. They need little space to exercise adequately. They are definitely housedogs; they do not have the coat to live outdoors. That said, they love to explore the outdoors but should be leashed or properly supervised to prevent them getting into trouble. Their big dog attitude can often cause them to attempt to tangle with animals much larger than themselves.
Recommended daily amount: 1/4 to 1/2 cup of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. For more on feeding your Toy Fox Terrier, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The coat of a Toy Fox Terrier is short, fine and smooth, slightly longer at the ruff. Generally, the body of a TFT should be mostly white. He comes in several color combinations: Tricolor: mostly black head, tan markings on cheeks, lips, and eye dots, body over fifty percent white with or without black markings. White and Tan: mostly tan head, body over fifty percent white with or without tan markings. White and black: mostly black head, body over fifty percent white with black markings. White, chocolate and tan: (allowed in AKC and CKC, not UKC) mostly chocolate head, tan markings on cheeks, lips and eye dots. Body is over fifty percent white with or without chocolate body spots. Brush your TFT"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim his nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your TFT to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
They can be active, fun loving companions for older children, but like most toy breeds, they are not recommended playmates for very young children. Their small size, tendency to break bones easily, and terrier tenacity can make a bad combination with very young children. They get along well with other dogs and cats in their home, although they may be territorial toward strange dogs passing or approaching their property.
No information found

Treeing Tennessee Brindle
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.9

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 3,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.05

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.19

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  1 foot, 4 inches to 2 feet tall at the shoulderWeight:  30 to 45 poundsLife Span:  10 to 12 years
The Treeing Tennessee Brindle stands out from other trailing dogs for his brindle coat, strong scenting ability, and versatility. He sniffs out all kinds of game and sends it up a tree, holding it there until the hunter arrives. A descendant of the Old Brindle Cur dog, he comes from the piney woods of the Ozark Mountains, the deep hollows of the Appalachian Mountains, and everywhere in between. The breed"s promoter was Rev. Earl Phillips, who gathered information about them in the 1960s. In 1967, the Treeing Tennessee Brindle Breeders Association was formed to preserve the brindle-colored cur dogs with their intelligent, courageous, and companionable temperaments. The TTB"s primary characteristic is his brindle coat. He"s smaller than the Plott, with a shorter ear and a different build. He"s acclaimed for his good voice and sings out when he"s on the trail. Despite the emphasis on the brindle coat in the name, when it comes to this breed, performance is paramount.
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found

Treeing Walker Coonhound
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 2,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 2,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.36

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.46

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  1 foot, 8 inches to 2 feet, 3 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  45 to 80 poundsLife Span:  12 to 13 years
Descended from English Foxhounds and formerly classified as an English Coonhound, the Treeing Walker earned his name by trailing game faster than other coonhounds and then treeing it until the hunter arrived. The Walker part of the name comes from Kentuckian John W. Walker, who helped develop the breed. This classic tricolor hound has a racy build, a short, clear bark, and a strong desire to hunt. Personalities range from outgoing to bashful to protective. Like any hound, the Treeing Walker requires patient, consistent training and plenty of daily exercise.
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found
No information found
No information found

No information found
No information found

Vizsla
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 1,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 2.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.25

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 4,
"Prey Drive" : 2,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.69

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 9 inches to 2 feet tall at the shoulderWeight:  45 to 65 poundsLife Span:  10 to 14 years
This breed is often described as the "Velcro Vizsla." Most dogs are affectionate, but this medium-size hunting dog is especially attached to his people. His Velcro nature has to do with his past: the Vizsla was developed in Hungary to be both a pointer and retriever who would work close to the hunter, never ranging too far away. That trait is still seen in today"s Vizsla, who prefers to be leaning against your leg or serving as a footwarmer. If having a dog shadow you all day would annoy you, choose a different breed. Despite their penchant for sticking close to their human pals, Vizslas are versatile and hard-working dogs who are happiest when they have a job to do. In a family, that job can be hunting companion, therapy dog, or jogging buddy. Give him at least an hour of exercise per day, and the Vizsla will be your best friend. If you"re interested in dog sports and activities, your Vizsla would probably be happy to compete. The Vizsla is the first and so far only breed to produce a quintuple champion — in conformation, field, obedience and agility. His superb scenting skills make him a natural hunter. Vizslas have also been guide dogs, drug-detection dogs, therapy dogs, and search-and-rescue dogs, and have competed in falconry, flyball, tracking, and hunt tests. Whatever you do with your Vizsla, train this sensitive dog with kindness and positive reinforcement. He"s quick to learn, and his keen senses and protective instinct make him an excellent watchdog. Vizslas are talkers, and will whine, moan, or make other noises to let you know their opinion on everything that"s going on. Some can become recreational barkers if this habit isn"t controlled early on. Not surprisingly, the best home for a Vizsla is one in which someone is there during the day to keep him company and give him the activity and mental stimulation he needs. Without them, he can become bored and destructive. With the right family, however, he"s a lively, loving, gentle friend who will return tenfold the love you give him.
Vizslas are an active breed and need at least 60 minutes of exercise every day. They enjoy long walks, jogging, and playing fetch, as well as dog sports. Vizslas are low to moderate shedders and need only weekly brushings to keep them free of loose hair. They rarely need baths and don"t have a strong doggy odor. Vizslas thrive on human companionship. They"ll follow family members from room to room and like to be touching or touched by their people. Vizslas aren"t recommended for people who work long hours. Vizslas can suffer from separation anxiety, which can lead to destructive behaviors. Vizslas tend to be chewers. Keep your Vizsla supplied with plenty of chew toys to protect your possessions. Vizslas do best in homes with fenced yards where they can safely run and play. Vizslas should live in the home with the family, not outside. Their coat doesn"t protect them from cold temperatures and they can"t thrive without human companionship. Although they aren"t recommended for homes with young kids, Vizslas are very affectionate with children and can make great companions for older, energetic kids. Training and socialization is a must with this breed. They can be difficult to handle if they aren"t properly trained and they can become shy and timid if they"re not properly socialized. Vizslas do well with other dogs and will even get along with cats if they"re raised with them. However, they"re not a good fit for homes that have small pets such as rabbits, gerbils, guinea pigs, or birds. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from a puppy mill, a pet store, or from a breeder who doesn"t provide health clearances or guarantees. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies and breeds for sound temperaments. If you"re buying a puppy, meet the puppy"s parents — they"re an indicator of what your pup"s future personality might be like. They should be friendly and sociable, not high-strung or overly shy.
Sometimes known as the Hungarian Pointer, the Vizsla probably descends from hunting dogs used by the Magyars, who settled Hungary more than a thousand years ago. The dogs were no doubt used by nobles and warlords to hunt game birds and hares. Eventually, the dogs were developed to both point and retrieve. Images of the Vizsla"s past can be found in ancient art. A 10th century etching shows a smooth-coated dog accompanying a Magyar huntsman. A chapter on falconry in a 14th century manuscript depicts a Vizsla-shaped dog. By the 19th and early 20th century the Vizsla was a distinct breed with excellent scenting powers who worked closely with his handler. During World War I, the talented hunting dog was used to deliver messages. The aftermath of World War I, followed by the ravages of World War II, nearly brought an end to the breed, however. Fortunately, the Vizsla managed to survive, and the first members of the breed were imported to the United States in the early 1950s. At that time, the breed looked much different than today: they had longer muzzles and a bonier topskull. Some had a houndy appearance, with long ears, and others ranged in color from chocolate brown to almost bleached out. The Vizsla Club of America was formed in 1954 and the American Kennel Club recognized the breed in 1960. Breeders have worked to standardize the distinctive Vizsla appearance and aristocratic bearing that you see today. Today the Vizsla is a beloved companion who can be found performing a multitude of jobs. Some were even working at Ground Zero after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The breed is moderately popular, ranking 43rd among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the American Kennel Club.
This is a lightly built, medium-size dog, with males standing 22 to 24 inches at the shoulder, females 21 to 23 inches. The weight range for the breed is 45 to 65 pounds, with females being smaller.
The Vizsla is described as lively, gentle, and affectionate, with above-average learning ability and a strong desire to be with people. He"s known for being biddable, but there are always exceptions — some Vizslas can be stubborn, excitable, or shy. Energetic and athletic, the Vizsla can become bored and destructive if left to his own devices. But when he has the training, exercise, and companionship he needs, this eager-to-please dog is hard to beat. Like every dog, Vizslas need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog.
Vizslas are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Vizslas will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Vizslas, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips and thyroid and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that the eyes are normal. Because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren"t issued to dogs younger than 2 years old. Look for a breeder who doesn"t breed her dogs until they"re two or three years old. The following conditions may affect Vizslas: Epilepsy is a disorder that causes seizures. Epilepsy can be managed with medication but it cannot be cured. A dog can live a full and healthy life with the proper management of this disorder. Canine Hip Dysplasia is a heritable condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but you may not notice any signs of discomfort in a dog with hip dysplasia. As the dog ages, arthritis can develop. X-ray screening for hip dysplasia is done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program (PennHIP). Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred. If you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems. Hip dysplasia is hereditary, but it can be worsened by environmental factors, such as rapid growth from a high-calorie diet or injuries incurred from jumping or falling on slick floors. Hypothyroidism is an abnormally low level of the hormone produced by the thyroid gland. A mild sign of the disease may be infertility. More obvious signs include obesity, mental dullness, drooping of the eyelids, low energy levels, and irregular heat cycles. The dog"s fur becomes coarse and brittle and begins to fall out, while the skin becomes tough and dark. Hypothyroidism can be treated with daily medication, which must continue throughout the dog"s life. A dog receiving daily thyroid treatment can live a full and happy life. Lymphosarcoma is the third most common cancer seen in dogs and can be found in various parts of the body such as the spleen, gastrointestinal tract, lymph nodes, liver, and bone marrow. The cancer is treated with chemotherapy and approximately 80 percent of dogs treated will go into remission. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA) is a degenerative eye disorder that eventually causes blindness from the loss of photoreceptors at the back of the eye. PRA is detectable years before the dog shows any signs of blindness. Fortunately, dogs can use their other senses to compensate for blindness, and a blind dog can live a full and happy life. Just don"t make it a habit to move the furniture around. Reputable breeders have their dogs" eyes certified annually by a veterinary ophthalmologist and do not breed dogs with this disease.
Exercise, exercise, and exercise, plus work in the form of canine sports or therapy work is the key to a happy and healthy relationship with a Vizsla. Give him at least two half-hour workouts daily in the form of walks, runs, or games of fetch, or he"ll become destructive and hard to handle. When training the Vizsla, be consistent and kind, never harsh. He responds best to positive reinforcement techniques such as praise, play, and food rewards. For best results, begin training as soon as you bring your puppy home. A few minutes of practice several times a day will bring success before you know it. The people-oriented Vizsla should live in your home with you, not out in the yard. He needs a fenced yard where he can play safely. Keep in mind that an underground electronic fence won"t protect him from other dogs that come into the yard. Being a retrieving dog, the Vizsla is mouthy and likes to chew. Provide him with a variety of chew toys and rotate them regularly so he doesn"t get bored and decide to gnaw on the furniture, your shoes, or other expensive items.
Recommended daily amount: 3 to 4 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Vizsla in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Vizsla, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Dressed in various shades of solid golden rust, the Vizsla has a short, smooth coat that lies close to the body. The eyes and nose come in various shades of brown. Some breeders sell Vizslas with a woolly undercoat, coats that are longer than normal, or of a different color (dark mahogany red or pale yellow, or coats with more than a small spot of white on the forechest or toes), or a black nose. These traits aren"t allowed in the breed standard — the written description of what the breed should look like — and they"re a good sign that you should look for another breeder. Responsible breeders try to stick closely to the breed standard. The Vizsla is easy to groom. He doesn"t have a strong doggy odor and requires only weekly brushing with a rubber curry brush and a wipe down with a damp cloth. Trim nails once or twice a month. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and protect your shins from getting scratched when your Vizsla enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. Start brushing and examining your Vizsla when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.
The Vizsla is a loving dog who"s friendly and tolerant with children, but his exuberance can be overwhelming for kids younger than six years old. As with any dog, teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and supervise any interactions between dogs and kids to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Vizslas get along with other dogs and can be friends with cats, especially if they"re raised with them. They might be a little too fond of pet birds, if you know what we mean. Nor should they be trusted around small pets such as rabbits, hamsters, or gerbils.
No information found

Weimaraner
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 2,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.1

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 4,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.31

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 5,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 2,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.59

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 5,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.81

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 11 inches to 2 feet, 3 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  55 to 85 poundsLife Span:  11 to 13 years
Your first exposure to the Weimaraner may have been through the photographs, calendars, and books of William Wegman, a photographer who uses wigs, costumes, and props to capitalize on the breed"s ability to assume almost human expressions. His ever-patient Weimaraners have impersonated Louis XIV, posed in bed watching television, and appeared as Little Red Riding Hood.But the Weimaraner"s earliest job was to serve as an all-around hunting dog who handled big game such as deer, bear, and wolves. As Germany"s forests shrank and big game became scarce, the Weimaraner"s handlers turned the breed"s talents to hunt birds, rabbits and foxes.He takes his name from the place in Germany where he was developed — the Court of Weimar, whose noblemen wanted a dog with courage married to intelligence, one with good scenting ability and speed and stamina on the trail.How they achieved their dream dog, first known as the Weimar Pointer, is unknown, but it"s believed that the breeds bred to create the Weimaraner include the Bloodhound, the English Pointer, the German Shorthaired Pointer, the blue Great Dane, and the silver-gray Huehnerhund, or chicken dog.Today, Weimaraners are affectionately called Weims, Silver Ghosts, or Gray Ghosts. Part of their appeal lies in their sleek mouse-gray to silver-gray coat and light amber, blue-gray, or gray eyes. But there"s far more to the Weimaraner than his distinctive appearance. The elegant, aristocratic dogs are loving and devoted.A Weimaraner"s first desire is to be with his people, preferably within touching range. It"s not for nothing that many Weimaraners bear the name Shadow. They"ll lie at your feet or follow you through the house.Weimaraners aren"t the breed for everyone, however. First-time dog owners need not apply. These dogs have a great deal of energy and stamina and need a lot of exercise and mental stimulation. Without it, they"re likely to become nervous and high-strung. They can be quite a handful, with loads of energy to burn, and the intelligence to figure out how to get into trouble all on their own!Because they"re hunting dogs, Weimaraners have a strong prey drive. If not trained or kept under control, they"ll chase and kill anything that resembles prey, including cats and small dogs, mice, frogs, birds, and more. They will then proudly present you with their trophies. They"ll also chase joggers and bicyclists.Despite their hunting instincts, Weimaraners are house dogs (like most dogs). They"re temperamentally unsuited to living in a kennel or being kept in the backyard with little human interaction.Weims are independent thinkers and will constantly test your boundaries. If you haven"t owned a Weimaraner before, you"ll do well to attend puppy kindergarten followed by obedience class. Training should be gentle and firm, however, because harsh treatment will make him resentful.Once he"s trained, the Weimaraner is a versatile dog who can be an up-close-and-personal hunting companion, compete in agility, and be a fine family friend.
Weimaraners were bred to have a lot of energy and stamina. Be prepared to provide them with lots of exercise and mental stimulation. Weims aren"t a soft-mouthed dog like a Golden Retriever and some have a low tolerance for small, furry animals, such as rabbits, and even cats and dogs. Until you know your dog well, watch him carefully when small animals are in his presence. Weims are high-strung dogs and can suffer from severe separation anxiety. If left alone for too long, they may bark, become destructive, or even injure themselves. Although Weimaraners are hunting dogs, they don"t like living outdoors. They require a lot of attention and want to be close to you. Weims often are suspicious of strangers and can be unacceptably aggressive. Socializing them to many different people and situations when they are puppies and throughout their lives is critical. Weimaraners are intelligent and they think for themselves. Firm, consistent, gentle training must continue throughout their lives. Weimaraners can be difficult to housetrain. Crate training is recommended. Unethical breeders may advertise blue or black Weims as "rare" to attract buyers and will charge more for pups of these colors, but the truth is that blue and black Weimaraners are disqualified in the breed standard. Weims are intelligent and can learn quickly, but if their intelligence and energy aren"t channeled constructively, they may learn some things you don"t want them to know, such as how to open doors and escape. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Weimaraner dates to the early 19th century, when he was developed at the Weimar court in what is now Germany. The noblemen there loved hunting and they wanted a dog with courage, intelligence, good scenting ability, speed, and stamina. This dog would stick close to them as they walked in search of game and would be a close companion in the evening by the fireside.How they achieved their dream dog, first known as the Weimar Pointer, is unknown, but it"s believed that the breeds used to create the Weimaraner included the Bloodhound, the English Pointer, the German Shorthaired Pointer, the blue Great Dane, and the silver-gray Huehnerhund, or chicken dog. As the decades passed, Germany"s forests shrank and big game became scarce. The Weimaraner"s handlers turned the breed"s talents to hunt birds, rabbits and foxes.In 1897, an exclusive club was stared in Germany to maintain the breed and ensure that responsible breeders would oversee its development. No one was allowed to buy a Weimaraner unless they joined the club. Strict guidelines were imposed upon the breeding of Weimaraners.In 1929, Howard Knight, an American sportsman, was allowed to join the German club and bring two Weimaraner dogs to the U.S. The Germans were so protective of their "Gray Ghosts" that although Knight promised he would protect the purity of the breed, the club sent him two desexed dogs.Knight was not deterred, however. He kept working to get some foundation dogs that he could breed in the U.S. Finally, in 1938, he acquired three females and a male puppy. The females included two littermates, Adda and Dorle v. Schwarzen Kamp, and a year-old female named Aura v. Gailberg. The male puppy was named Mars aus der Wulfsreide.Other breeders joined Knight in his quest to breed Weimaraners in the U.S. and in 1942, the Weimaraner Club of American was formed. The American Kennel Club recognized the breed at the end of 1942. The breed made its formal show debut at the Westminster Kennel Club show in 1943.During World War II, it became difficult for German breeders to keep their dogs, so many outstanding Weimaraners were sent to the U.S.At the end of World War II, many American servicemen brought Weimaraners home with them, and they quickly grew in popularity, especially when President Dwight D. Eisenhower brought his Weimaraner, Heidi, to the White House. By the mid- to late 1950s, Weimaraners were the 12th most popular breed registered by the AKC. Unfortunately, as often happens, this led to a lot of irresponsible breeding. As the quality of the breed dropped and temperament problems became common, the Weimaraner"s popularity fell.By the late 1960s, the number of Weim registrations fell to nearly half of what they had been in 1957. Registrations kept decreasing throughout the 1970s and 1980s. This allowed breeders who were dedicated to the breed (not just breeding puppies to sell) an opportunity to improve the health, temperament and conformation of the Weimaraner breed. Registrations began to climb in the 1990s, and today the Weimaraner is once again of the most popular breeds in America. He ranks 30th among the 155 breeds and varieties registered by the AKC.
Male Weimaraners stand 25 to 27 inches at the shoulder and weigh 70 to 85 pounds. Females are between 23 and 25 inches tall and weigh 55 to 70 pounds.
Early tales about the Weimaraner made it seem as if the dog came fully trained and was perfect in all respects. Even today, many people still hold this belief about the breed. Unfortunately for them, there"s no such thing as a dog that comes programmed with good behavior.The typical Weimaraner is friendly, fearless, alert, and obedient, all traits that make him an excellent companion and watchdog. On the flip side, he"s assertive, smart, restless, and willful. This is a dog who will take over the household if you give him half a chance. He"ll chew, bark, chase cats, and steal the roast off the counter — if you don"t give him the socialization, training, and structure he needs throughout his life.Aggression and shyness are temperament flaws that are seen in this breed. They must be dealt with early and may require the assistance of a behaviorist or experienced trainer to avoid serious behavior problems such as biting.Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up.Like every dog, Weimaraners need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. For the Weim, however, socialization should continue throughout his life. Socialization helps ensure that your Weimaraner puppy grows up to be a well-rounded, outgoing, friendly dog and stays that way. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Weimaraners are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Weims will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed.If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Weims, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Hip Dysplasia: This is an abnormality of the hip joint. It may affect one or both sides. Dogs with hip dysplasia may or may not show any clinical signs. Although the tendency toward hip dysplasia is thought to be inherited, diet, rapid growth, and environment also are thought to be contributors to the condition. Gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV), also called Bloat or Torsion: This is a life-threatening condition that can affect large, deep-chested dogs, especially if they are fed one large meal a day, eat rapidly, drink large volumes of water after eating, and exercise vigorously after eating. Some think that raised feeding dishes and type of food might be a factor in causing this to happen too. It is more common among older dogs. GDV occurs when the stomach is distended with gas or air and then twists (torsion). The dog is unable to belch or vomit to rid itself of the excess air in its stomach, and the normal return of blood to the heart is impeded. Blood pressure drops and the dog goes into shock. Without immediate medical attention, the dog can die. Suspect bloat if your dog has a distended abdomen, is salivating excessively and retching without throwing up. He also may be restless, depressed, lethargic, and weak with a rapid heart rate. It"s important to get your dog to the vet as soon as possible. von Willebrand"s Disease (vWD): This is an inherited blood disorder that is caused by a deficiency in clotting factor VIII antigen (von Willebrand factor). The primary sign is excessive bleeding after an injury or surgery. Other signs, such as nosebleeds, bleeding gums, or bleeding in the stomach or intestines may also be present. Most dogs with von Willebrand"s disease lead normal lives. If you feel this is a concern, your vet can perform tests to determine if your dog has it. Distichiasis: This is a condition in which the dog has an extra row of eyelashes, usually on the lower lid, that cause irritation to the cornea and tearing. Entropion: This defect, which is usually obvious by six months of age, causes the eyelid to roll inward, irritating or injuring the eyeball. One or both eyes can be affected. If your Weimaraner has entropion, you may notice him rubbing at his eyes. The condition can be corrected surgically if necessary. Factor XI Deficiency: This is another bleeding disorder that usually is minor, but may become severe after trauma or surgery. Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism is caused by a deficiency of thyroid hormone and may produce signs that include infertility, obesity, mental dullness, and lack of energy. The dog"s fur may become coarse and brittle and begin to fall out, while the skin becomes tough and dark. Hypothyroidism can be managed very well with a thyroid replacement pill daily. Medication must continue throughout the dog"s life. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): This is a degenerative eye disorder that eventually causes blindness from the loss of photoreceptors at the back of the eye. PRA is detectable years before the dog shows any signs of blindness. Fortunately, dogs can use their other senses to compensate for blindness, and a blind dog can live a full and happy life. Just don"t make it a habit to move the furniture around. Reputable breeders have their dogs" eyes certified annually by a veterinary ophthalmologist and do not breed dogs with this disease. Immune-mediated Disease: A small percentage of Weimaraner puppies react to vaccinations, particularly combination vaccines, with fever, elevated white blood count, and inflamed tissues and joints. Reactions occur most often at 12 to 16 weeks of age. The Weimaraner Club of America recommends that puppies be vaccinated only at 8 and 12 weeks of age with four core vaccines: distemper, adenovirus 2, parainfluenza, and parvovirus. The rabies vaccination can be given at 16 weeks of age.
The first thing to know about the Weimaraner is that he"s a housedog. He"s not meant for kennel or backyard life, and he"s also not suited to apartment living. This highly active dog needs a large, securely fenced yard where he can run, and an active family who can provide him with the exercise and mental stimulation he needs.A sense of humor helps as well, especially when you see how your Weim has relandscaped your yard in his efforts to rid it of mice, moles, and bugs. He"ll be proud of himself for his good efforts, so don"t forget to praise him as you calculate in your head how much time, money, and effort it will require to put the yard back the way you like it. You might want to supervise him more closely and provide him with additional exercise.Weimaraners need a couple of hours of exercise daily if you want to prevent recreational barking, chewing and digging. Play fetch and other running games, take him jogging or hiking, teach him to run alongside your bicycle, or get him involved in a dog sport such as agility or flyball. And, of course, you can always take him hunting.Be sure your yard is escape-proof. Weims are Houdinis when it comes to confinement, and they"re very good at learning how to open doors and gates and jump over or dig under fences. That"s another reason why it"s best to have them as housedogs.In the house, a mature, well-trained Weimaraner will be your shadow, from bedroom to bathroom to kitchen to den. A Weimaraner puppy is a challenge and requires careful supervision. He can be a destructive chewer and difficult to housetrain. Crate training is a good idea.Weimaraners of any age with separation anxiety, which is not unusual in this breed, can become destructive and may "dig" in your carpet or sofa in an attempt to create a secure nest.It"s certainly not a behavior problem, but be aware that Weimaraners have loose lips. Nope, they won"t sink ships, but they will splash water everywhere when they drink. Keep hand towels handy to wipe their mouths and clean up spills.Weimaraners are highly intelligent, but they"re also independent thinkers. That combination can make them a challenge when it comes to training. Be consistent and firm, but gentle. The Weimaraner is sensitive and doesn"t respond well to anger, but you must be able to say "No" and mean it. Keep training sessions short and interesting, and always end them when he"s done something right so you can praise him for a job well done. Last but not least, hold tight to your sense of humor. Your Weimaraner may or may not do as you ask, depending on any number of factors, but he"ll always disobey with style.Among the talents your Weimaraner may acquire are getting ice from the dispenser in the door of your refrigerator, turning on faucets, and opening gates and doors — including refrigerator doors. It"s a cinch to teach him tricks and you may want to do so, simply to keep him occupied and out of trouble.
Recommended daily amount: 2.5 to 3.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals.Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.Keep your Weimaraner svelte by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.For more on feeding your Weim, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Weimaraner"s coat is short, smooth, sleek, and solid-colored, ranging from mouse-gray to silver-gray, usually with lighter shades on the head and ears. A distinctly long coat is a disqualification according to the American Kennel Club breed standard — a written description of how a breed looks — but in European countries a longhaired variety is recognized. Longhaired Weimaraners have a silky coat and feathering on their tails and legs, but they are rarely seen in this country.A Weim"s nose is dark gray. Inside the flaps of the ears and on the lips, where the coat is thin or nonexistent, the skin is pink, not white or black.A Weimaraner is one of the easiest breeds to groom. Even when he has been running through mud, the dirt just seems to fall off him. Weekly brushing with a bristle brush should keep his coat and skin healthy. Weimaraners shed, but brushing will help keep loose hair off your clothes and furniture. To make his silvery coat shine, wipe him down with a chamois. Bathe when needed. He takes great pleasure in rolling in anything stinky, so this may be more often than would normally be necessary.All breeds with pendant, or hanging, ears tend to have issues with ear infections. Check your Weimaraner"s ears weekly and wipe them out with a cotton ball moistened with a cleanser recommended by your veterinarian. Never stick cotton swabs or anything else into the ear canal or you might damage it. Your Weimaraner may have an ear infection if the inside of the ear smells bad, looks red or seems tender, or he frequently shakes his head or scratches at his ear.Brush your Weimaraner"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath.Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and prevent your legs from getting scratched when your Weimaraner enthusiastically jumps up to greet you.Begin accustoming your Weimaraner to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
For an active older child who"s familiar with dogs, a Weimaraner can be a great companion. They"re far too rambunctious for toddlers, however, and may chase small children who are running.Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child.Weimaraners are not the best choice for families with cats, small dogs, rabbits, hamsters, gerbils, or birds. Weimaraners have a strong prey drive and it"s difficult, if not impossible, to redirect that instinct. They will go after and kill, if possible, any small or large furry animals they see.
No information found

Welsh Springer Spaniel
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.9

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 3,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.62

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.82

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.92

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 5 inches to 1 foot, 7 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  35 to 55 poundsLife Span:  10 to 15 years
The Welsh Springer Spaniel (Welsh Springer or Welshie for short) takes his name from the way he "springs" at game to flush it for the hunter. He has been a favorite with sportsmen for more than 200 years. These lively, beautiful dogs excel in the field, and also are wonderful companions and family pets. A medium-size dog with a compact body, the Welshie"s outstanding physical characteristic is a silky dark red and white coat of medium length that"s dense with feathering on the ears, chest, legs and belly. He has large, hanging ears and a gentle expression. Welsh Springers are a little smaller and lighter than English Springers, and a bit taller and larger than English Cocker Spaniels. Welsh Springer Spaniels are trainable and eager to please. As a typical spaniel, they have a lot of enthusiasm. They are a little less outgoing than English Springer Spaniels and somewhat independent. They"re gentle around children if they grow up with them or are exposed to them when they"re young, and they"re affectionate toward their families. Welshies can be reserved around strangers, and early socialization is important to prevent timidity. They are generally good with other pets in the household, even small ones, although they might see birds as prey since that"s what they are bred to hunt. Because they"re bred to be hunting dogs, Welshies require a lot more exercise than your average dog. They have a great deal of stamina and energy and can work for hours in all kinds of weather and terrain. That hunting instinct is strong, so keep them on leash in unfenced unless you want to see them take off in pursuit of a bird or bunny. Their enthusiasm for hunting is so great that they have a tendency to wander from the hunt field. Training a Welshie from a young age to come when called is a must. The Welshie"s athletic skills aren"t limited to hunting. Many people who have one participate in such activities as obedience, agility, flyball, and tracking. Because Welshies have such happy natures, they make great companions and family dogs. Their only aim in life — besides going after birds — is to be near their people and to please them in any way possible.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are not as outgoing as English Springer Spaniels and may be a bit standoffish with strangers unless they are well socialized. They can suffer from separation anxiety if left alone too much and for too long. If this occurs, they may engage in destructive behavior. Welsh Springer Spaniels have a "soft" personality and will not respond well to harsh training methods. Although they are very trainable and eager to please, housetraining can be a challenge. Crate training is recommended. Especially when they are young, Welsh Springer Spaniels can greet you with a great deal of exuberance, jumping up on you and generally showing their joy at seeing you. You might want to train them not to jump, especially if you have children that they might accidentally knock to the ground. Welsh Springer Spaniels were developed to have great stamina and energy. Be sure you can provide your dog with adequate exercise or he may become nervous and destructive. Some Welsh Springer Spaniels can demonstrate submissive urination. Be sure to keep your Welsh Springer Spaniel on a leash when you take him to unfenced areas. You never know when he will see a bird or other small animal and be overcome by his instinct to hunt! To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
Spaniels are thought to have originated in Spain (hence their name) many centuries ago and eventually spread to other parts of the world. Welsh Springers, English Cockers, English Springer Spaniels, and other spaniels of British origin all share a similar early history. At first, all spaniels were called Cockers or Cocking Spaniels. They were named for the function they performed, not their type. Early breeders often interbred different types of dogs. Later, they began to divide spaniels into Water Spaniels and Land Spaniels. Welsh Springer Spaniel types were considered Land Spaniels. Many early writings mention a Welsh Cocker that many believe was the forerunner of today"s Welsh Springer Spaniel. Tapestries created during the Renaissance depict a Land Spaniel that looks very similar to the Welsh Springer Spaniel. Welsh Springer Spaniels became a favorite hunting dog of nobility during the 1700s, but in the 1800s, they were replaced by English Springers and other spaniels. Eventually, the breed was revitalized during the Victorian period in England. At early dog shows in the 1800s, Welsh Springer Spaniels competed in the same class as English Springers, with the only difference being color. The Welsh Springer Spaniel was recognized by Britain"s Kennel Club as a separate variety from the English Springer Spaniel in 1902. Originally, the breed was called the Welsh Spaniel or the Welsh Cocker. When designating it as a separate breed, the Kennel Gazette called it a Welsh Springer, which some feel might have caused some confusion with the English Springer Spaniel. Purists of the breed stress that Welsh Springers have no more connection with today"s English Springer than any other variety of spaniel and are, indeed, their own separate breed. Several South Wales gentry raised Welsh Springers for years. One notable breeder in the early 1900s was A.T. Williams, of Ynys-y-Gerwn, Neath. He was passionate about the working abilities of the breed and lobbied for the preservation of its character and type. His grandfather had also had Welsh Springers in the late 1800s. Williams" had a dog named Corrin, which was born in 1893. Corrin was the first Welsh Springer Spaniel to be photographed, and was a key stud dog of the breed, as well as a successful show and working dog. Welsh Springer Spaniels were imported to America in the late 1800s and quickly gained popularity. The American Kennel Club (AKC) recognized the breed in 1906. In the first 20 years of the 1900s, although they never were to become a very common breed, popularity of Welsh Springer Spaniels grew both in the U.S. and England. One of the leading exhibitors and breeders in England was Mrs. H.D. Greene of Craven Arms, Shropshire. Her Longmynd bitches were immortalized in a painting by Maud Earl, an artist who was known primarily for her paintings of dogs and other animals. Mrs. Green was the Secretary of the first Welsh Spaniel Club in England, and unfortunately lost her kennel during World War I. In the U.S., August A Busch of Anheuser-Busch beer brewing fame, imported some dogs from R Hughes of Swansea, as well as two females named Longmynd Twig and L May Queen. World War I and World War II took its toll on dog breeding in the U.S. as elsewhere in the world. Between the years 1926 and 1948, no Welsh Springer Spaniels were registered by the AKC, and it was believed that there were no longer any in the U.S. After World War II, dogs were imported from England to revive the breed, and in 1961, the Welsh Springer parent club was formed. In England, the breed fared only a little better. After World War I, a new breed club was formed for Welsh Springers by Lt. Col. John Downes-Powell. The club was formed in 1923, and Lt. Col. Downes-Powell served as its Honorable Secretary until 1947. During the time between World War I and World War II, some outstanding Welsh Springers were produced in England, including Ch. Shot O"r Baili, and Ch. Marksman O"Mathern. One of the most influential dams was Goitre Lass, owned by Mr D Lewis of Talybont-on Usk. She had 9 litters between 1926 and 1932. Six of those litters were the result of being bred to Ch. Merglam Bang and produced five full Champions, three other CC winners and several other award winners. In 1939, an English dog exhibitor named Harold Newman was entrusted with ensuring the breed"s survival during World War II. His dogs and his personality as a breeder, exhibitor, and judge are cited as major factors that helped Welsh Springer Spaniels stage a comeback in England in 1945. His stud named Dewi Sant sired eight show and full Champions. Newman gave a start to Miss D.H. Ellis (Downland) among others. Miss Ellis re-established the breed in the U.S. in 1950, and began Anne West"s Linkhill kennel. The Welsh Springer Spaniel Club of America was founded in 1961 with 21 members. Today, their membership is more than 400 with members from the U.S., Canada, U.K, Finland, and Holland. Several of the founding members are still with the club. The Club held its first AKC Sanctioned Match for Welsh Springers in 1964 at the Randhaven Kennels. Always dedicated to preserving the working characteristics of the Welsh Springer Spaniel, the parent club holds many activities including sanctioned matches, hunt tests, obedience trials, and agility and tracking events.
The average height at the shoulder for male Welsh Springer Spaniels is 18 to 19 inches, and they typically weigh 40 to 55 pounds. Females are usually 17 to 18 inches tall and weigh 35 to 50 pounds.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are trainable and eager to please. As a typical spaniel, they have a lot of enthusiasm and can sometimes be impulsive or headstrong. They are a little less outgoing than English Springer Spaniels and somewhat independent. Welshies can be reserved around strangers, and early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds and experiences — is important to prevent timidity. They"ll bark to let you know when people are approaching — happily for friends and more loudly or sharply for strangers. When they"re not outdoors, expect them to spend a lot of time looking out the window to keep an eye on everything that"s going on.
Welsh Springers are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Welshies will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Welshies, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Hip Dysplasia: Hip dyplasia is a heritable condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but you may not notice any signs of discomfort in a dog with hip dysplasia. As the dog ages, arthritis can develop. X-ray screening for hip dysplasia is done by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals or the University of Pennsylvania Hip Improvement Program. Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred. If you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems. Entropion: This is a condition caused by the lower eyelid folding inward toward the eye, resulting in a chronic irritation of the surface of the eye. It can be corrected through surgery. Epilepsy: This seizure disorder has been noted in some lines of Welsh Springer Spaniels and can be treated with medication. There is no cure.
Welsh Springer Spaniels can be kept outside, with adequate shelter from the heat and cold, but they are such wonderful family companions, why wouldn"t you want them in your house, sleeping at your feet in the evening? Welsh Springer Spaniels are fairly active indoors and can live comfortably in city apartments (with proper exercise, of course) or in the country. They do best with at least an average-size yard in which to run. Wherever they live, they are energetic dogs that need a lot of exercise to keep them from becoming fat, bored, and lazy. Keep training sessions short and positive. That"s more suited to their personality and attention span than boring repetition. Train them with understanding and patience, and you"ll be well rewarded.
Recommended daily amount: 1.5 to 2.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. You can determine whether your Welshie is overweight by using the hands-on test. Place your hands on him, thumbs along the spine and fingers going down the sides. You should be able to feel his ribs beneath a layer of muscle. If you can see the ribs, he"s too thin. If they"re undetectable beneath rolls of fat, he needs to go on a diet. For more on feeding your Welshie, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Welsh Springer Spaniels have a naturally straight, flat, soft coat that is never wiry or wavy. It"s dense enough to serve as protection from wet, cold weather and rough country. They have some moderate feathering on the backs of the forelegs, the hind legs above the hocks, the chest, and the belly. The ears and tail are also lightly feathered. The coat is a dark, rich red and white. The white area may be flecked with red ticking. Welsh Springer Spaniels are fairly easy to groom. Brush them regularly to keep them looking their best and to prevent mats, which are especially common when they"re shedding. Because their ears hang down, you need to check your Welshie"s ears and clean them at least once a week to prevent ear infections. Bathe them only when necessary.
Welsh Springers are gentle around children if they grow up with them or are exposed to them when they"re young. If they"re raised with them from puppyhood, they are generally good with other pets in the household, even small ones, although they might see birds as prey since that"s what they are bred to hunt.
No information found

Welsh Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 3,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 3,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 2]
Grouping total: 2.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.3

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 2,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.23

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 5,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

Dog Breed Group:  Terrier DogsHeight:  1 foot, 2 inches to 1 foot, 3 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  Up to 20 poundsLife Span:  10 to 14 years
He may look like a small Airedale, but the Welsh Terrier has his own personality. It"s certainly a strong personality, and no wonder — he was bred to hunt badgers, foxes, and otters. Although not many folks hunt badgers these days, hunting cookies in the yard is a solid alternative. Smart as can be, this party boy excels in agility, flyball, tracking, earthdog, and obedience competitions. He"s also been involved in both search and rescue work and therapy. The Welshie is a lot of dog in a medium-sized package, and first-time owners would do better with a less independent breed. However, other dog lovers may wish to step up to the challenge of life with a freethinker whose prime desire has nothing to do with pleasing you. He"s a problem solver, which can be wonderful and terrifying. Don"t underestimate his problem-solving skills, because if he"s bored, that"s a problem to be solved. He"s not for the faint of heart, or for those looking for a quiet companion or for instant obedience. As a matter of fact, obedience might be a long time in coming — but it will eventually, with repeated effort. He needs intellectual stimulation, and if you can provide that in his training, there"ll be no stopping him in competition. First and foremost, this boy has to burn off steam every day or you"ll be scraping him off the ceiling. He has a ton of energy and requires — not just needs — an hour of exercise every day. If you"re looking for a jogging companion, he"s your man; and he"ll be up early brewing your coffee while waiting for you to get your running shoes on. Regardless of how much exercise he gets, you should still expect to see some rough play in the house that can result in Welsh Terriers flying off couches or knocking over lamps. They"re surprisingly tough when it comes to this kind of play (whereas some gentler canine souls dislike the wild play of children). The kids will have a great time with him as they roughhouse — and nap — together; Welshies are terrific with kids. A word of caution: If you play with your Welsh Terrier inside the house, don"t expect him to not race through the house at other times. It becomes an accepted behavior, and he"ll launch himself off furniture whenever the mood hits. And that might be often, since he enjoys being in high altitudes and will frequently relax on picnic benches and tables. A Welshie is intelligent, and while that helps him grasp concepts easily, he can be difficult to train. You won"t get anywhere with boring, rote lessons — in fact, repetition is the best way to get a Welsh Terrier to ignore you. On the other hand, you"ll be amazed at what you can accomplish with fun, positive training that convinces him that you"re the one in charge. He was bred to be freethinking, like a child of the sixties, so if you work with this trait instead of against it, you"ll have more fun than you can imagine. He can do well in homes with other dogs, but he needs to be properly socialized to keep him from being dog-aggressive. He"s definitely not recommended for homes with small animals due to his strong prey drive. Although it"s not ideal, the Welsh Terrier can live in an apartment. He"s a born watchdog and will bark when he sees or hears something suspicious — which can be a problem in buildings with noise restrictions. A house with a small fenced yard is better suited to his energy and noise, particularly if you don"t mind a few holes in the lawn here and there. Like many other terriers, the Welshie has a great time digging and can easily make a mess of gardens and yards. Despite his hardiness, he does better living indoors with the people he loves rather than outside in a kennel. The Welsh Terrier can be a perfect, devoted companion for an active family who has the time to care for him and meet his exercise requirements. He"s independent enough to not yearn for or demand excessive attention, yet he"s affectionate enough to enjoy time spent cuddling on the couch. He"ll fill the house with the sounds of life and just might grace your furniture and tables. The Welsh Terrier is proof that life can be lived to the fullest and that not all good things come in big packages.
A Welsh Terrier can do all right in apartments if properly exercised, but the ideal is a house with a fenced yard. As a low- to nonshedder, the Welshie can make a great companion for people with allergies. Expect a fair amount of grooming. Welshies need their coats brushed on a regular basis and also need their coats stripped about every eight weeks. Welsh Terriers can be difficult to train and require a consistent and fun training program. For this reason they aren"t recommended for first-time owners. The Welsh Terrier is an independent breed not prone to separation anxiety. He will require toys and activities to keep him entertained, since a bored Welsh Terrier can become destructive. Welshies love kids. They like to be up in high places and will climb onto tables and other high furniture. Like many terriers, the Welshie has a strong prey drive. Welsh Terriers can be combative with other dogs and need to be properly socialized from an early age. Barking and digging are common traits. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
Although the history of the Welsh Terrier is not completely clear, we can ascertain from paintings and prints that the breed is quite old and may have been one of the first Terriers. He was originally known as the Black-and-Tan Wire Haired Terrier or the Old English Terrier. Although associated with Wales, he lived in many parts of England during the 19th century. He was commonly used to hunt foxes, otters, and badgers, and he excelled at eradicating vermin. He was commonly shown and categorized as an Old English Terrier, a category under which many Terrier breeds were classified. It wasn"t until 1885 that he was classified as a Welsh Terrier by the Kennel Club of England. Welsh Terriers began arriving in the United States in 1888, though their importation was erratic. By 1901, however, the Welsh Terrier finally established a footing in the United States, and his popularity grew at a steady pace.
The Welsh Terrier is a medium-sized dog. The average height is 15 to 15.5 inches, females being slightly smaller than males. The average weight is usually 20 pounds, but weight should be in proportion to the height and bone density of each individual dog.
The Welsh Terrier is a cheerful, intelligent dog who loves to have fun and is always affectionate. He"s energetic and has a playful nature. Loyal and devoted to his family, he can nevertheless be quite the social butterfly. He loves to amuse both himself and his family, and he"s not as hot-tempered as some other terrier breeds. His loving disposition and energy makes him an excellent family companion who"s great with children. The Welshie can be independent, which may lead to some training difficulties (especially with inexperienced owners). But this is usually offset by what most people love best about the Welsh Terrier: his happy, fun-loving zest for life. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Welshie needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Welshie puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Welshies are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Welshies will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Welshies, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Allergies: Allergies are a common ailment in dogs, and the Welsh Terrier is no exception. There are three main types of allergies: food allergies, which are treated by eliminating certain foods from the dog"s diet; contact allergies, which are caused by a reaction to a topical substance such as bedding, flea powders, dog shampoos, and other chemicals; and inhalant allergies, which are caused by airborne allergens such as pollen, dust, and mildew. Treatment varies according to the cause and may include dietary restrictions, medications, and environmental changes. Epilepsy: This is a neurological condition that"s often, but not always, inherited. It can cause mild or severe seizures that may show themselves as unusual behavior (such as running frantically as if being chased, staggering, or hiding) or even by falling down, limbs rigid, and losing consciousness. Seizures are frightening to watch, but the long-term prognosis for dogs with idiopathic epilepsy is generally very good. It"s important to take your dog to the vet for proper diagnosis (especially since seizures can have other causes) and treatment. Glaucoma: This is a painful disease in which pressure in the eye is abnormally high due to improper drainage of normal eye fluids. This causes damage to the optic nerve, resulting in vision loss and blindness. Glaucoma may be hereditary, or it may be the result of some other problem in the eye, such as inflammation, a tumor, or injury. The affected eye will be red, teary, squinty, and appear painful; the front of the eye will have a whitish, almost blue cloudiness. Vision loss and eventually blindness will result, sometimes even when treated with surgery or medication. Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism is a disorder of the thyroid gland. It"s thought to be responsible for conditions such as epilepsy, alopecia (hair loss), obesity, lethargy, hyperpigmentation, pyoderma, and other skin conditions. It is treated with medication and diet.
Training a Welsh Terrier can be a study in who is more determined, the trainer who"s trying to get the Terrier to listen, or the bored Terrier who"s ignoring the trainer. The Welshie is known for having a mind of his own and he"s not the most obedient of breeds — he"s no sunny Golden Retriever — so he will often test limits. Train him with positive reinforcement and consistency. Harsh corrections can shut down any chance at getting through to him. The Welsh Terrier can also become bored easily, so he requires an interesting training routine. Breaking training up with fun games, keeping it free of repetition, and giving him something to work for are excellent ways to get him more interested in training. Socialization is important with a Welsh Terrier. He can be combative with other dogs and animals, but this trait can be corrected with proper training and early and ongoing socialization. In fact, Welsh Terriers generally do well with other dogs once they"re socialized. A Welsh Terrier is a high-energy dog. Even with a vigorous exercise routine, you should expect some of that energy to be converted into room-crashing escapades that range throughout the house. He should have a minimum of 30 to 60 minutes of daily exercise, which can be accomplished by playing in a yard or dog park (as long as he isn"t too dog-aggressive to go to the dog park), playing in the house, or going on a long walk. Letting him hang in the yard by himself is not going to be enough — and he"ll probably jump the fence. The Welsh Terrier is very fond of toys and will burn off ample energy playing by himself with his favorite squeaky toy. He can also make an excellent jogging companion, though his high prey drive means you should keep him leashed on walks. Crate training benefits every dog and is a kind way to ensure that your Welshie doesn"t have accidents in the house or get into things he shouldn"t. A crate is also a place where he can retreat for a nap. Crate training at a young age will help your Welshie accept confinement if he ever needs to be boarded or hospitalized. Never stick your Welshie in a crate all day long, however. It"s not a jail, and he shouldn"t spend more than a few hours at a time in it except when he"s sleeping at night. Welshies are people dogs, and they aren"t meant to spend their lives locked up in a crate or kennel. Although it"s not ideal, the Welsh Terrier can live in an apartment. He will bark, though, and this can become a problem in buildings with noise restrictions. A house with a small, fenced yard is better. Also, he needs to live indoors with the people he loves.
Recommended daily amount: 3/4 to 1 cup of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Welshie in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Welshie, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Sporting two coats to waterproof himself, the Welsh Terrier has an outer coat that"s hard and wiry and an undercoat that"s soft and short. He only has one color pattern: tan and black. A non- to light shedder, the Welshie still requires a fair amount of grooming. He should be brushed at least once per week, although it"s frankly better to do it every other day. Unless he"s clipped, that wiry coat will need to be stripped several times a year to remove any loose or dead hair and to prevent it from matting. Brush your Welshie"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your Welshie to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Welsh Terrier is a loving dog who can be patient when he needs to be. Add to that a hardiness that allows him to enjoy a fair amount of roughhousing, and you"ll find that he makes a wonderful companion for children. As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. He"s also basically compatible with other dogs and can do well in homes where he isn"t the only canine companion. He is a Terrier though, and he may be dog-aggressive if not properly socialized or trained. He"s not recommended for homes with small pets that might be viewed as prey, because all Terriers have a strong prey drive and will give chase.
No information found

West Highland White Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 4,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.5

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 5,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.8

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 4,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 4,
"Size" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.44

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.45

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 4,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.54

Dog Breed Group:  Terrier DogsHeight:  10 inches to 11 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  13 to 22 poundsLife Span:  12 to 16 years
To say that the West Highland White Terrier — or Westie, as he"s affectionately called — is a "big dog in a little dog"s body" doesn"t do him justice. He"s not pushy or temperamental, and he doesn"t need to challenge or demand. He"s not stubborn so much as just interested in what"s in it for him. Convince him that what you want is in his best interests, and he"ll jump right on board with your plan.Originally developed for hunting and ratting, the Westie learned to think on his own, a trait he still enjoys indulging in today (although there will undoubtedly be times you might not enjoy it quite as much). The Westie"s instinct to work is now usually channelled into agility and obedience competitions rather than getting rid of rodents. He also works as a therapy dog, and a few Westies have even joined search-and-rescue teams. He is also known to compete in earthdog tests, tracking, and flyball. You can focus all of his abundant energy into any one or more of these jobs.Mostly, though, the West Highland White Terrier is a companion, and he enriches his family"s life with his silly antics and love of life. He"s a social guy who gets along well with everyone, strangers included, and he is not a one-person dog. He"s affectionate with children of all ages, and he does well living with older kids. He gets along with other dogs in public settings (unless he"s one of two intact males in the group), and he positively thrives in homes with multiple dogs. He can adapt to cats — despite chasing them from time to time, he will usually settle down nicely with friendly kitties. What he cannot adapt to are small animals that run free, such as rabbits or gerbils, since the wee white one has a strong prey drive.The Westie is happy in any type of living situation and will do well in the country or in the city. He needs to live inside with his family, however, not outside. He makes an excellent apartment resident if properly exercised and trained not to bark. He"s happy to stay at home while you"re at work, and — with proper stimulation and safety precautions — he"s fine on his own during your workday. To top it all off, he"s also an easy traveler, whether on long vacations or short errands.The West Highland White Terrier can be trained easily. He"s intelligent and a quick learner, and training will amuse him as long as it remains positive and consistent. In fact, using positive reinforcement laced with consistency is the only way to train a Westie. Clicker training is an excellent training method for him. You"re wasting your time using harsh corrections, since his "what"s in it for me" attitude is likely to kick in, causing him to shut down and ignore the commands.The Westie will definitely alert bark when he sees or hears something suspicious, and without fail he"ll announce visitors, letter carriers, and dogs who walk in front of the house. Some will even announce bugs who fly by. In other words, he can be pretty darn noisy. But with appropriate training from a young age, he can be taught to bark only once when he sees or hear something.A popular breed, the Westie can be affectionate and loyal but still possess enough independence and self-assurance that he doesn"t need pampering (although he"ll never turn it down). Some Westies like being a lapdog more than others. He likes being clean, which makes him a piece of cake to housetrain. He makes a wonderful companion for a first-time or inexperienced dog owner. With his easygoing nature, intelligent eyes, and fun-loving personality, the Westie can melt even the coldest of hearts.Generally a calm guy when he"s indoors (where he may hang out on the couch like a white lounge lizard), the Westie will often morph into a different dog outside. He can be a speed demon who zooms around the dog park, and he can hike with his people all day. He loves playing games, flinging plush squeaky toys around, or just romping through the backyard sniffing and surveying his domain. And while he can enjoy digging, it seems to be an acquired passion. (With proper training, and by redirecting him whenever you catch him in the act, this habit can be stopped.) Some Westies can be exercised indoors by playing fetch down a hallway. Although he doesn"t require quite as much exercise as some breeds, expect to walk him once or twice every day to keep him happy and healthy.The Westie is not meant to live outside, however. He does best in the house, although he"s not really a lapdog or an avid cuddler. On the independent side, he"ll bypass the center of the action for a spot just near it. (If that spot is close to a heating vent, so much the better.) He can watch the household while you"re at work; although some individuals can suffer from separation anxiety, it"s not a common trait in the breed. Just give him safe but entertaining toys and activities to keep him from becoming bored: turn on a radio, leave him with frozen kongs stuffed with peanut butter, and make his crate a cozy haven.
A Westie can have terrier traits (no surprise there). He will dig, bark, and go after vermin. But with proper training, he can be trained to only bark once and to not dig at all, although some dogs are less easily discouraged than others. The vermin chasing, however, is hardwired, and no amount of training will alter it. A Westie does well in multidog homes, unless there is more than one intact male (and he"s one of them). He can get used to cats. He cannot adapt to small pets, such as rabbits and birds, because of his strong prey drive. He"s generally easy to train if it"s done in a positive and consistent way. Bear in mind that a Westie has a strong will and great self-esteem, which can cause some training difficulties if training becomes boring or is too harsh. His coat is easy to groom and only requires regular brushing. If he"s not clipped, his coat requires stripping about twice a year. He"s a low shedder. Although he doesn"t require as much exercise as other breeds, the Westie still needs one or two daily walks or play sessions. He generally has a low energy level inside the house, though individual dogs vary in this regard. A Westie is adaptable and will do well in any type of dwelling, including apartments (although if he isn"t trained out of barking, he"s likely to cause difficulties with the neighbors). He"s a social dog who gets along well with everyone. He likes children of every age, but he"s better suited to homes with older children. A Westie can be left for long periods of time when his people are working. Turning on a radio, providing toys and kongs, and crating him are the key strategies to use. If you are a fastidious gardener, the Westie is not your best choice, since he may become fond of digging up plants and be just a tad too enthusiastic about helping you garden. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The West Highland White Terrier shares a history with that of the Dandie Dinmont, Skye, Scottish, and Cairn Terriers; they are all considered branches of the same breed. The West Highland White Terrier originated in Scotland and was used for hunting fox, badger, and otter and for killing vermin such as rats.There"s not much evidence to determine the exact history of the West Highland White Terrier, but many believe that the breed can be traced back to the seventeenth century and a small breed of earth dogs that James I of Argyllshire gave to the king of France.According to breed lore, the Westie"s white color resulted from a tragic nineteenth-century accident that occurred while Colonel Malcolm of Poltalloch was hunting fox. The colonel accidentally shot and killed one of his wheaten-colored Cairns. Devastated, and determined to prevent such accidents in the future, he decided to breed only white dogs that couldn"t be confused with foxes.The West Highland White Terrier has been known by many names, including the Poltalloch Terrier and the Roseneath Terrier, but he was officially recognized by the Kennel Club of England as the West Highland White Terrier in 1906.
The West Highland White Terrier is a sturdy little dog with a deep chest and a slightly rectangular shape. Males are about 11 inches tall and typically weigh 15 to 22 pounds; females are roughly 10 inches tall and weigh 13 to 16 pounds. (Unless, of course, you have a soft heart and fall prey to those pleading brown eyes — in which case your Westie, of either sex, could weigh at least twice the norm.)
The West Highland White Terrier is a bold, confident, fun-loving, intelligent dog who can find joy in the simplest pleasures of life, such as squeaky toys, a belly rub, and food. His happy disposition and love of life make him a favorite for many, in spite of his mischievousness. He doesn"t lack any self-esteem, but he"s not so overbearing in his confidence that his self-assurance becomes a negative trait.He is friendly and gets along with everyone, and he enjoys being part of his family. No docile lapdog, he can be spunky. He rarely starts a fight, but he is after all a terrier, so he won"t walk away from one. He"s a lively little guy who greets the adventures in life with a sparkle in his eye and a skip in his step — particularly when he"s mowing over your feet to get to his food bowl.Same-sex aggression around other dogs is not rare, though females tend to be more alpha than males. The males lean more toward the happy-go-lucky lapdog.
Westies are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Westies will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed.If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Westies, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Craniomandibular Osteopathy: This condition affects the skull bones while a puppy is growing, causing them to become irregularly enlarged. Symptoms usually appear between four and eight months of age. The cause is unknown but believed to be hereditary. Often the puppy"s jaw and glands will become swollen, and he won"t be able to open his mouth. He"ll drool, have a fluctuating fever that recurs every couple of weeks, and, in some cases, his chewing muscles may atrophy. There is no treatment, but anti-inflammatories and pain relievers help the dog deal with what is a painful condition. Proper nutrition is a must; in severe cases, a feeding tube may be needed. The irregular bone growth slows and typically stops by the time the puppy becomes a year old. The lesions can regress, but a few dogs have permanent jaw problems and therefore have trouble eating. Occasional cases are severe enough to call for jaw surgery. Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease: If your Westie has Legg-Perthes, the blood supply to the head of the femur (the large rear leg bone) is decreased, and the head of the femur that connects to the pelvis begins to disintegrate. The first symptoms, limping and atrophy of the leg muscle, usually occur when puppies are four to six months old. Surgery can correct the condition, usually resulting in a pain-free puppy. Cataracts: This common eye condition cause sopacity on the lens of the eye, resulting in poor vision. The dog"s eye(s) will have a cloudy appearance. Cataracts usually occur in old age and sometimes can be surgically removed to improve vision. West Highland White Terriers are usually afflicted by juvenile cataracts. Pulmonary Fibrosis: Also known as Westie lung disease, this malady scars the supporting tissue in the air sacs and connective tissue of the lungs. This makes the lungs loose their elasticity, which prevents oxygen from passing normally into the blood. Symptoms vary from dog to dog — many dogs show none for years — but they can include loss of stamina, rapid breathing, "crackling" in the lungs, a dry cough, shortness of breath, and difficulty breathing. Pulmonary fibrosis can lead to heart failure and other diseases as well. There is no cure and prognosis is always poor, so prevention is critical. Preventing any respiratory infections, limiting exercise, and keeping a healthy weight (or losing weight for overweight dogs) is key. The disease is sometimes treated by keeping the house cool and using bronchial dilators. Treatment has greater success if the disease is diagnosed early, before the scarring gets out of hand. Patellar Luxation: Also known as slipped stifles, this is a common problem in small dogs. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling, although many dogs lead relatively normal lives with this condition.
Crate training benefits every dog and is a kind way to ensure that your Westie doesn"t have accidents in the house or get into things he shouldn"t. A crate is also a place where he can retreat for a nap. Crate training at a young age will help your Westie accept confinement if he ever needs to be boarded or hospitalized. Never stick your Westie in a crate all day long, however. It"s not a jail, and he shouldn"t spend more than a few hours at a time in it except when he"s sleeping at night.Some Westies like to swim, but they should be supervised at all times while doing so — they"re not as at home in the water as many of their canine cousins.
Recommended daily amount: 1/2 to 1.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals.NOTE: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.For more on feeding your Westie, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Westies have a double coat, with a short undercoat and a topcoat close to two inches long. That double coat protects him from inclement weather and from the teeth and claws of his quarry. The wee white one should, of course, always be white. Any other color is considered a fault in the show ring.His coat is easy to groom and requires regular brushing and trimming. Show dogs generally undergo stripping about twice a year, but most pet owners don"t bother. Trimming is usually needed on the feet, and around the ears and eyes. The hair on his head is often plucked to produce that definitive round shape you see on show dogs. His shedding tendencies range from low to nearly zero.The coat stays fairly clean and he should only be bathed when necessary. To keep that coat a nice sparkly white, the Westie requires some tidying and may need to be wiped down — sometimes frequently.Check his ears once a week for dirt, redness, or a bad odor that can indicate an infection. Also wipe them out weekly with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to prevent problems.
The West Highland White Terrier is a loving dog who is good with older children. But he must have adult supervision around children, particularly younger ones. Some breed books have overemphasized how well the Westie gets along with kids, so breed clubs recommend that all children in a Westie"s home be older than seven years of age. This dog can snap if annoyed — but if child and dog are properly supervised, the Westie can do well with children of all ages.A West Highland White Terrier is good with other dogs and is suited for multidog homes. However, an intact male generally dislikes other intact male dogs, Westie or otherwise. He can adjust to cats, but that"s easier if he"s been raised with them rather than adjusting to a late-life introduction; he has a strong prey drive and will chase cats who decide to run from him. A Westie should not be trusted with small animals because of his prey drive. Bred to go to ground after little varmints, and he can"t differentiate between the caged pet mouse in your child"s bedroom and a wild mouse that found its way indoors. If you want any small pet, including rabbits or birds, this isn"t the breed for you.
No information found

Whippet
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 1,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.8

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 1,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.38

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 4,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 1,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.45

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 2,
"Exercise Needs" : 5,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.58

Dog Breed Group:  Hound DogsHeight:  1 foot, 6 inches to 1 foot, 10 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  18 to 48 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
Nicknamed the "poor man"s Greyhound," the elegant yet powerful Whippet was probably created some time in the late 18th century for use by poachers in search of rabbits and other small game, as well as in "snap" contests, in which the goal was for the dog to snap up rabbits in a circle. They really came into their own, however, when it was discovered that they would chase a waving rag, and Whippet racing became popular among working class men. This medium-size hound has a short, dense coat in a variety of colors and markings covering a streamlined body. The Whippet is not a miniature Greyhound but was developed by crossing Greyhounds with smaller terriers and, later, Italian Greyhounds. The result was a sleek and beautiful dog who"s gentle and affectionate. The Whippet is often called the perfect all-purpose dog and is a keen competitor in agility, flyball, and lure coursing. Although they"re known for their independent temperament, which can make obedience training challenging, plenty of Whippets compete successfully in obedience trials. The Whippet usually gets along with other dogs and people, although early socialization — exposure to different people, sights, sounds, and situations — is necessary to keep your Whippet from becoming fearful of new situations. If you"re fond of cats, however, the Whippet may not be the best choice. This breed has a strong prey drive. Although some Whippets can live peacefully with cats and other small furry pets, there have been cases of Whippets killing family cats. You may be able to train and socialize your Whippet to accept the family cat, but it"s important to always supervise their interactions and never leave them alone together. That same prey drive that makes Whippets unsuitable to homes with cats makes them unsuitable to walks off leash. They will give chase if they see something worth chasing, and even a well-trained Whippet will disregard commands to come. Some have pursued prey for miles. Whippets enjoy daily walks, and an opportunity to run in a fenced yard or other confined area is always appreciated. An underground electronic fence is not sufficient to keep them contained; they"ll ignore the shock it gives in favor of going after any moving object. In the home, they"re gentle and undemanding, asking only to enjoy your company. With children they"re playful and mischievous. Their thin coats and affectionate nature make them unsuited to living outdoors. Whippets will snuggle with you on the sofa and warm your feet in bed at the end of an active day.
Whippets are suitable for apartment living if you have access to a safely fenced area where they can run. Whippets have low energy levels indoors, but will become overactive and destructive if their exercise needs are not met. When Whippets are not socialized properly they can become timid and stressed by changes in their environment. A properly socialized Whippet is a polite and undemanding dog who"s wonderful with strangers and other dogs alike. Whippets aren"t very good watchdogs as they rarely bark and are friendly toward everyone they meet. Whippets need daily exercise and will enjoy romping and running in a fenced yard or on leash. A Whippet should never be allowed to run off leash during walks. Whippets have a strong prey drive and will pursue other animals for several miles. Underground electronic fencing is not recommended for Whippets. They will ignore the shock if they see something to chase. A 5- or 6-foot fence should be enough to confine your Whippet. Whippets don"t shed excessively, and weekly brushing will help keep loose hair off your clothes and furniture. A Whippet"s thin skin is vulnerable to scrapes, tears, and nicks. Without daily exercise, a Whippet can become destructive. When their exercise needs are met, Whippets are generally quiet and calm dogs. Whippets are not outdoor dogs and should live in the house with their people. Whippets can suffer from separation anxiety and can become destructive when they do. It"s important to spend time with your Whippet and allow him the freedom to follow you from room to room or just snuggle at your feet, or more likely on the couch with you. Although Whippets do very well in multi-dog households, there have been cases of Whippets attacking and killing cats. There have been some Whippets who live happily with cats and other small furry pets, but these dogs were socialized to the animal at a very young age. If you have any other small pet besides another dog, please be aware that the Whippet might chase the other pet — or worse injure it  — if he"s not properly socialized or trained. Whippets are great companions for kids. Nonetheless, it"s important to teach your child how to properly interact with dogs and to never leave a young child alone with any breed of dog. Whippets get cold easily. Buy a sweater or coat for your Whippet to wear when it"s cold, wet, or snowy outside. To get a healthy pet, never buy a puppy from a backyard breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Find a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs for genetic health conditions and good temperaments.
The Whippet is a fairly modern breed, not much more than a couple of hundred years old. He was developed in Northern England, specifically Lancashire and Yorkshire, probably during the late 1700s, by crossing Greyhounds with fast, long-legged terriers. The result was a small, swift dog frequently used by poachers to hunt rabbits and other small game on local estates. The Whippet became popular with working men in Northern England, who spent their off hours seeing whose Whippets could kill the most rabbits or rats or whose was the fastest. Whippet races usually took place on a straight track that spread down roads and across fields. The Whippets would chase a rag or piece of cloth, and the contests became known as rag races. While the working class bred and perfected the racing and hunting spirit in the breed, it"s said that the upper class perfected the look of the breed as it is today by adding in some Italian Greyhound for refinement. England"s Kennel Club recognized the Whippet as a breed in 1891. The first Whippet to be registered with the American Kennel Club was a dog named Jack Dempsey, in 1888. Today the Whippet continues to inspire admiration for his stylish look, versatility, and devoted companionship. He"s ranked 60th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
A male Whippet is 19 to 22 inches tall at the shoulder; females are 18 to 21 inches. Their weight ranges from 18 to 48 pounds, with females being smaller. Males average 34 pounds, females 29 pounds.
Amiable, friendly, quiet, and gentle at home, the Whippet is intense in the chase. He requires a leash or a fenced yard to prevent him from taking off after any moving object, be it a bunny or a radio-controlled car. He doesn"t bark much, but he"s alert and makes an excellent watchdog. Guard dog? Not so much. He"ll happily show the burglar to the silver. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, Whippets need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Whippet puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
The Whippet is a generally healthy breed, and buying from a responsible breeder will help ensure that you get the healthiest Whippet possible. A puppy from a reputable Whippet breeder will be vaccinated and dewormed before you take him home. Responsible breeders use only physically sound, mature (at least 2 years or older) dogs, and test their breeding stock for genetic diseases pertinent to the breed. Both parents should have health clearances, documentation that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Whippets, you should expect to see health clearances from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. Health clearances are not issued to dogs younger than 2 years of age. That"s because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity. For this reason, it"s often recommended that dogs not be bred until they are two or three years old. The following conditions may affect Whippets: Anesthesia Sensitivity: Sighthounds, including Whippets, are sensitive to anesthesia and some other drugs. A normal dose for any other dog of the Greyhound"s size can kill a Greyhound, probably because of the breed"s low percentage of body fat. Choose a veterinarian who is aware of this sensitivity in sighthounds and will know how to dose your Greyhound. If you cannot find a veterinarian in your town who is knowledgeable about sighthounds, be sure to alert her to this sensitivity to ensure that all anesthetics and drugs are properly administered to your dog. Deafness: Deafness is uncommon in Whippets, but it occurs occasionally. Whippets who are deaf have special training and communication needs, but there are many aids on the market, such as vibrating collars, to make life easier for you and your dog. Eye Diseases: Some Whippets may develop various eye defects. The breeder from whom you purchase your puppy should have eye clearances dated within the past year for both parents certifying that their eyes are normal. von Willebrand"s Disease: This is a blood disorder that can be found in humans and dogs. It affects the clotting process due to the reduction of von Willebrand factor in the blood. A dog affected by von Willebrand"s disease will have signs such as nose bleeds, bleeding gums, prolonged bleeding from surgery, and prolonged bleeding during heat cycles or after whelping. Occasionally blood is found in the stool. This disorder is usually diagnosed in your dog between the ages of 3 and 5 and cannot be cured. However, it can be managed with treatments that include cauterizing or suturing injuries, transfusions of the von Willebrand factor before surgery, and avoiding certain medications.
Most important to a Whippet"s comfort is a nice, soft bed to cushion his body as well as access to your sofa and bed so he can cuddle with you. For cold-weather walks, he"ll need a sweater or coat to help him stay warm. He can"t tolerate being outdoors in the cold for long periods. A 5- to 6-foot fence will safely contain your Whippet in his yard. An underground electronic fence won"t. Your Whippet will readily ignore any shock in favor of giving chase. Give your Whippet a couple of 20- to 30-minute walks on leash daily. As often as possible, he"ll love the chance to run off leash in a fenced yard or park, but don"t be surprised if his burst of energy lasts only a few minutes. Be careful not to exercise your Whippet puppy too heavily. It"s important to avoid any strain on their joints or system. The general rule is five minutes for every month of age; in other words, a 5-month-old puppy should receive no more than 25 minutes of exercise per day. Whippets are easily housetrained, and using a crate will help. A crate is your Whippet"s safe place, and he won"t want to soil it. Putting him in it when you can"t watch him will ensure that he doesn"t have an accident in the house or chew up something he shouldn"t. A crate keeps him safe and both of you happy. Train your Whippet with praise, patience, and positive reinforcement. Whippets are smart and willing, but they also have a mind of their own. Reward them with food or praise when they do what you like, and never be harsh with them. They"re sensitive and will stop working for you if you yell at them, try to force them to do something, or hurt their feelings. With patience and consistency, you will find yourself the owner of a well-trained Whippet. After basic obedience you may want to pursue training in dog sports such as flyball, agility, and lure coursing.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 1.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into 2 feedings. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. For more on feeding your Whippet, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Whippet"s short, smooth coat lies close to the body. It can be any color or color combination. You"ll see him in black, white, red, fawn, blue, cream, brindle, and various combinations of those colors with a wide variety of spots, blazes, and patches. Keep your Whippet"s coat shiny with weekly brushing, using a rubber curry brush or hound glove. This will help to remove what little hair the breed sheds. You shouldn"t need to bathe your Whippet frequently unless he rolls in something stinky. Because of his thin coat, a Whippet"s skin is not as protected as that of other breeds. It"s common for Whippets to have nicks, scrapes, and tears that occasionally require stitches. Check him frequently for such injuries and to ensure that there are no infections in any of the nicks and scrapes. Otherwise, the only grooming he needs is dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Whippet"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and prevent your legs from getting scratched when your Whippet enthusiastically jumps up to greet you. Begin accustoming your Whippet to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Ears should smell good, without too much wax or gunk inside, and eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Whippets enjoy playing with kids. They"re not so large that they knock them over easily, and they"re not so small or delicate that they"re easily injured by them. That said, a few ground rules will keep everyone safe. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Whippets like the company of other dogs, and the presence of another dog or two can help keep them from being lonely if you"re gone during the day. They have a high prey drive, however, and aren"t really suited to living in homes with cats. It"s their nature to chase small furry creatures, after all. Some Whippets can learn to live peacefully with cats, especially if they"re brought up with them from puppyhood, but you should always supervise them when they"re together and separate them when you"re not home.
No information found

Wirehaired Pointing Griffon
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 1,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 3,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 4,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 5,
"Dog Friendly" : 4,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 3,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.12

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 5,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 4,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 4,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.41

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.54

Dog Breed Group:  Sporting DogsHeight:  1 foot, 8 inches to 2 feet tall at the shoulderWeight:  50 to 60 poundsLife Span:  10 to 14 years
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is a medium-sized gundog breed of relatively recent vintage. The breed was developed near the end of the 19th century, and ever since then these dogs have awed people with their amazing ability to point and retrieve. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon was originally used for hunting and would flush, point, and retrieve water fowl, game birds, and even hares. She"s been described as the "supreme gundog" and is still actively used in this role. She also makes an excellent family companion and enjoys any kind of work. Many Griffons have been successful in agility, tracking, and obedience. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is also a happy and loving breed. She generally gets along well with everyone, and although she"ll alert bark, she"s too gentle to be a strong guard dog. She does well in homes with children, but she prefers older children who know how to treat a dog properly. She usually gets along with other pets and dogs but still needs to be socialized, since some Griffons can be nervous when they"re introduced to new people, dogs, and situations. Griffons are an energetic breed and require daily exercise. They will do much better when they have an area to run in, and most exercise should be off-lead in the yard. They"re not recommended for apartments, and although they can adapt to city living, they do much better in the country. They thrive when they"re in the company of their families and are not the best breed to live outside in the yard or in a kennel. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is considered to be a nonshedder and should make an excellent dog for people with allergies. They do require some grooming with weekly brushings, and some stripping of the coat is required. Wirehaired Pointing Griffons are always eager to please and are very intelligent. Generally they"re easy to train and enjoy working closely with their owners. Despite the fact that the breed is young, it has gained popularity. Griffons are free from many inherited disorders, have a sense of humor that"s endearing, and they"re ideal hunting and family companions. If you"re looking for a high-energy, humorous hunting and family dog, this may be the breed for you.
Wirehaired Pointing Griffons are sporting dogs and consequently have a great deal of energy. They require daily exercise, preferably a minimum of 20 minutes off-leash per day. They can adjust to city living, although they"re not recommended for apartments. Griffons do best in the country where they have room to run. They also do better if they reside inside the home with their families, rather than living in the yard or a kennel. Wirehaired Pointing Griffons thrive when they"re with their owners; they can suffer from separation anxiety if they"re left alone for long periods at a time. Although they"re a nonshedding breed, Griffons still require some care. Expect to brush about once a week and to strip the coat several times per year. Wirehaired Pointing Griffons generally do well with other dogs and pets. Griffons enjoy being a companion breed. They have a loving and gentle temperament, making them good with children. They"re usually accepting of everyone, although some can be high-strung and nervous when introduced to new people, dogs, and situations. Early socialization is important with all breeds, and the Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is no exception. Although they don"t have the suspicious nature of guarding breeds, Wirehaired Pointing Griffons do make excellent watchdogs since they will alert bark if someone comes to the house. Don"t expect them to carry it further and defend the house, though, since they tend to be easygoing with everyone. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is a fairly young breed. Its development is attributed to one E.K. Korthals, a Dutchman who lived in France and was interested in creating the ideal gundog. There"s no clear evidence of what breeds he used, but some believe that he crossed the Otterhound and various Setters and Spaniels. It"s also probable that a Pointer was part of the mix. Starting his work in 1874, he eventually produced three dogs — Moustache I, Querida, and Lina — who in turn produced the best lines in the Wirehaired Pointing Griffon breed. Korthals was soon able to win over many people to his breed"s ability to point and retrieve. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon gained popularity quickly and the breed was first exhibited in a show early in its history. In 1887, the first Wirehaired Pointing Griffon was registered in the United States.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon should be a medium-sized dog, males averaging 22 to 24 inches in height and females ranging from 20 to 22 inches. The average weight is 50 to 60 pounds.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is often described as the "supreme gundog," and her energetic and intelligent nature leaves little doubt as to why. She"s a versatile hunting dog who will both point and retrieve. She also makes a devoted and loyal family companion. She"s likely to have a sense of humor that will amuse everyone, and she won"t lose this trait with age. She"s likely to be loving and accepting of just about everyone, although some Griffons have been known to be nervous around strangers. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Griffon needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Griffon puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Griffons are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Griffons will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Griffons, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): This is a family of eye diseases that involves the gradual deterioration of the retina. Early in the disease, affected dogs become night-blind; they lose sight during the day as the disease progresses. Many affected dogs adapt well to their limited or lost vision, as long as their surroundings remain the same. Hip Dysplasia: This is an inherited condition in which the thighbone doesn"t fit snugly into the hip joint. Some dogs show pain and lameness on one or both rear legs, but others don"t display outward signs of discomfort. (X-ray screening is the most certain way to diagnose the problem.) Either way, arthritis can develop as the dog ages. Dogs with hip dysplasia should not be bred, so if you"re buying a puppy, ask the breeder for proof that the parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and are free of problems.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is an intelligent breed, a quick learner who"s eager to please. It"s important to start training early, especially if you want to train her as a gundog. Socialization should also start as soon as vaccinations are complete, since Griffons — though not generally aggressive — can sometimes be high-strung or nervous around new people, dogs, and situations. Although Wirehaired Pointing Griffons are hardy enough to live in kennels, they do much better living indoors with their families. They thrive when they"re working closely with people. They also do better in the country where there"s room to run, but they can adapt to city living if they have a fenced yard. They"re not recommended for apartments. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon needs regular exercise, a minimum of 20 minutes of free play every day. She does better when she"s exercised off-lead in a yard; if you walk her on a leash, then you"ll need to spend more time, since she can"t receive the same workout as when she"s running loose. Like many sporting breeds, the Wirehaired Pointing Griffon has a lot of energy but can be fairly calm when inside the house.
Recommended daily amount: 2 to 2.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on her size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Griffon in good shape by measuring her food and feeding her twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether she"s overweight, give her the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at her. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on her back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see her ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, she needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Griffon, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon has a dense double coat. The undercoat is a thick, weather-resistant down. The topcoat is harsh in texture and consists of straight, wiry hair. It is medium in length and should never be curly. The Griffon should have eyebrows and a moustache, both of which are extensions of the undercoat. The preferred coat is a steel gray color with chestnut brown or roan markings. Colors that are less desired in the show ring are a uniform white or brown, or white and orange. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is considered to be a nonshedder; any hair loss is light. The coat should be combed through about once a week and stripped of dead or loose hair. The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon should only be bathed when necessary, since bathing can soften the natural harshness of its coat. The ears need special attention and must be kept clean and dry, especially after swimming. Otherwise they can trap water, dirt, and debris, leading to ear infections. Check them weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Brush your Griffon"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time she sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. Begin accustoming your Griffon to being brushed and examined when she"s a puppy. Handle her paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside her mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when she"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is a very loving and gentle breed who does well with children. She"s better suited to homes where children are over the age of six, but they can adapt well to younger children who know how to properly treat a dog. As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. The Griffon generally does well with other dogs and pets if she"s properly socialized from puppyhood.
No information found

Xoloitzcuintli
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 1,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 1,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 3,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.0

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 3,
"Dog Friendly" : 2,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.9

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 5,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 5,
"General Health" : 5,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 3,
"Size" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.19

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 5,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 5,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 5]
Grouping total: 3.5

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 3,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 3,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.42

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  1 foot, 6 inches to 1 foot, 11 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  10 to 50 poundsLife Span:  14 to 20 years
Say his name like this: show-low-eats-queent-lee.” Or just call him the “show-low.” Whatever you call him, you’re sure to be intrigued by his unusual looks and restful but attentive personality.At first glance — and sometimes second and third glance — the Xolo does not have an attractive appearance. A wrinkled brow, squinty eyes, satellite-dish ears, a mohawk bisecting the top of the head, and a ratlike tail, not to mention the mostly hairless body, make the Xolo a dog that only his mother could love. Well, except for the people who prize the very differences that make him stand out from other dogs.Take a closer look, however, and you will see a lean, sturdy, well-muscled dog, with a body that is slightly longer than it is tall. A wedge-shaped skull gradually tapers to the muzzle. The expression is that of a smart and lively dog whose brow wrinkles when his attention is focused on something. Almond-shaped eyes range in color from yellow to black. The big ears, carried erect, have an elegantly thin and delicate texture. Puppies may have a wrinkly body, but as they grow into their skin the body smooths out. The feet are webbed, and the tail is long and fine.The Xolo has advantages that might be obscured by his unusual looks. He comes in three sizes — small, medium and large — and he has a calm personality and moderate exercise needs. This is a dog that won’t run you off your feet. The fact remains, however, that the Xolo is a primitive breed with the drive to chase other animals, including the neighbor’s cat, and an assertive and protective nature. In other words, he can be predatory, stubborn, and inclined to bite first, ask questions later if he thinks his person is in danger.You might think that the Xolo’s bald body makes him hypoallergenic, but hairlessness alone doesn’t mean he won’t make you sniffle and sneeze. He might be less likely to affect people with allergies, but he still produces dander, saliva and urine, all of which carry allergens. Be sure you meet several Xolos to make sure you don’t react to them.The Xolo is not an easy dog to rehome if you decide he’s not the right fit for you. Not everyone wants a dog with such unusual looks. But if you like the idea of having a living hotwater bottle with a reputation for a healing touch and the wherewithal to drive away evil spirits, the Xolo might be your dog.
The Xolo comes in three different sizes, so the breed is adaptable to any type of home. Native to Mexico and Central America, the Xolo is also known as the Mexican Hairless. The Xolo is thought to date to pre-Columbian civilizations. Although he’s known as a hairless breed, the Xolo also comes in a coated variety. The Xolo’s body is slightly longer than it is tall. In addition to being a great companion, the Xolo is also a protective watchdog. The Xolo’s lack of an insulating fur coat makes him feel warm to the touch, even though his body temperature is not any higher than that of other dogs. The Xolo was recognized by the American Kennel Club in 2011 as a member of the Non-Sporting Group. There are fewer than 1,000 Xolos in the United States, with approximately 30,000 worldwide. The Xolo is not hypoallergenic, although his hairless body may be less likely to trigger allergies in susceptible individuals. The Xolo can have a strong prey drive and is likely to chase other animals.
Unlike dogs that were created by crossing or mixing two or more breeds, the Xolo is considered to be a natural breed, probably the result of a spontaneous genetic mutation. For centuries, the breed was molded by natural selection, not by human manipulation.Archaeological evidence suggests that the ancestors of the Xolo were dogs that accompanied migratory peoples across the Bering landmass — now submerged — from Asia to the New World. The dog we now know as the Xoloitzcuintli takes his name from the Aztec deity Xolotl, the god of fire and the escort of the dead to the underworld, and “itzcuintli,” the Aztec word for dog. These dogs of Xolotl were said to have healing powers, especially effective in cases of asthma, rheumatism and insomnia. In life, they frightened away evil spirits and intruders, and they were believed to serve as guides for the dead as they made their way from this world to the next. Unfortunately, that guide job usually involved being sacrificed to accompany the dead. Even less fortunately, Xolos were also considered good eats.Nonetheless, they thrived and went through periods of popularity, beginning in 1887, the first time the breed was recognized by the American Kennel Club, which at the time referred to it as the Mexican Hairless. A Mexican dog named Mee Too was the first Xolo registered with the AKC. After that first flush of interest, little was heard from the breed, except for a brief time in the spotlight in 1940, when a dog named Chinito Jr. became the first and only Xolo to earn an AKC championship. Pet stores could barely keep the dogs in stock. Mexican artists Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo portrayed them in artwork. Fashion is fickle, though, and the Xolo again dropped from view, so much so that the AKC deregistered it in 1959.The breed might have disappeared altogether, but fans have brought it back from the brink of extinction. Today it is considered a national treasure in Mexico and was named dog of the year there in 2010. Approximately 30,000 are known to exist worldwide. The American Kennel Club brought the breed back into the fold in 2011. The Xolo currently resides at the intersection of rarity and popularity and sells for $2,000 to $2,500.
Xolos come in three sizes: Toy (at least 10 through 14 inches tall at the shoulder), Miniature (more than 14 through 18 inches tall) or Standard size (more than 18 through 23 inches tall). Their weight ranges from 10 to 50 pounds.
The adult Xolo is a calm dog who is aloof toward strangers but attentive toward his family. He usually chooses one person as his favorite but does not stint on affection toward other family members. A daily walk or an energetic playtime in a fenced yard satisfies his exercise needs. The rest of the time, he’ll enjoy lying in the sun or snuggling with you in an effort to stay warm. Take him with you whenever you can; he’s not fond of being left home alone.Xolos are excellent watchdogs and will alert you to anything that seems of concern. They are not nuisance barkers, however, so if they sound off, it’s a good idea to see what has disturbed them. Xolos are wary of strangers and are not the type of dog to make friends easily with people outside their family. They are also territorial toward other animals that come onto their property. Xolos that have not been well socialized may be aggressive toward people or dogs they don’t know.Bring up a Xolo with consistency and structure. Train using gentle positive reinforcement techniques, and this smart and sensitive dog will quickly learn what you like and don’t like. Once he knows that, a stern glance is generally all that’s needed to correct any misbehavior. An inexperienced dog owner can be easily manipulated by this breed, however, so a Xolo may not be the best choice for a first-timer.The Xolo is also highly athletic. Scaling a six-foot fence is nothing to an adult Xolo, and even puppies can scramble over three-foot fences. Be sure that your yard is escape-proof.Puppies are highly active and can be destructive if they aren’t kept busy with play and training. As they mature, they start to become the mellow dogs that typify the breed.Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents-usually the mother is the one who"s available-to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up.Like every dog, Xoloitzcuintli need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Xoloitzcuintli puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Xoloitzcuintli appear to be a healthy breed, and buying from a responsible breeder will help ensure that you get the healthiest Xoloitzcuintli possible. A puppy from a reputable Xoloitzcuintli breeder will be vaccinated and dewormed before you take him home. Responsible breeders use only physically sound, mature (at least 2 years or older) dogs, and test their breeding stock for genetic diseases pertinent to the breed.Health clearances are not issued to dogs younger than 2 years of age. That"s because some health problems don"t appear until a dog reaches full maturity. For this reason, it"s often recommended that dogs not be bred until they are two or three years old.Although the Xolo is not known to be prone to any serious genetic diseases, he has some traits that can affect his appearance and how you care for him. The first, of course, is hairlessness. A Xolo needs protection from the sun and from extremely cold weather. Apply sunscreen all over his body, especially if he is light-colored, and don’t leave him outdoors for long periods unless he has a shady place where he can retreat from the sun’s rays. In snowy or bitter cold weather, he’ll appreciate a sweater or coat to keep him warm. Indoors, let the Xolo go naked so he doesn’t overheat or develop skin problems from having his pores covered up. The good news is that his tough skin heals quickly if he gets a cut or abrasion.Another interesting facet to the Xolo is that hairlessness and dentition are genetically linked. Many adult hairless Xolos are missing their premolars, the bicuspids located between the canines and the molars. This does not affect their ability to eat and is not faulted in the show ring. Coated Xolos have full dentition.
The hairless Xolo has smooth but tough skin that fits closely to his body. What little hair he has adorns the top of the head, the feet and the last third of the tail, up to the tip. A coated Xolo is completely covered with short, smooth, close-fitting hair. In both varieties, the hair may be any color. Typically, it is black, gray-black, slate, red, liver or bronze. Some Xolos have white spots and markings.You might think that a hairless dog needs little to no grooming, but think again. It’s true that the Xolo often cleans himself like a cat and is unlikely to get fleas, but because he sweats through his skin and paw pads, it’s important to keep those areas clean. Wash the feet weekly to make sure the sebaceous glands remain unclogged. Bathe the dog every couple of weeks with a gentle dog shampoo. It is usually not necessary to apply oils or lotions to the skin. Wipe off any sunscreen after the dog has been outside.Trim the Xolo’s fast-growing nails weekly. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. The earlier you introduce your Xoloitzcuintli to nail trimming the less stressful the experience is for both of you.Brush the teeth at least two or three times a week — daily is better — to remove tartar and bacteria. Start when your puppy is young so he"ll be used to it.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Ears should smell good, without too much wax or gunk inside, and eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Recommended daily amount: Depending on a Xolo’s size, he should eat 5/8 to 1.75 cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals.How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.It"s easy to overfeed a Xoloitzcuintli, but obesity can stress his joints, so he shouldn"t be allowed to get fat. Keep your adult Xoloitzcuintli in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the hands-on test. Place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.For more on feeding your Xoloitzcuintli, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
No information found
Xoloitzcuintlis are sometimes purchased without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one, and these dogs often end up in the care of rescue groups, in need of adoption or fostering. Other Xoloitzcuintlis end up in rescue because their owners have divorced or died. Adopting an adult Xoloitzcuintli has many benefits. Adult dogs are often already housetrained and have some obedience training, and they"ve already gone through the destructive puppy stage. Xolo Rescue League
No information found

Yorkipoo
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 5,
"Sensitivity Level" : 4,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 3,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 3]
Grouping total: 3.67

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 5,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 4,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.6

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 1,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 4,
"General Health" : 3,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 3.0

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 4,
"Intelligence" : 4,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 3,
"Prey Drive" : 3,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 5,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.14

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 3,
"Exercise Needs" : 3,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 4]
Grouping total: 3.23

Dog Breed Group:  Hybrid DogsHeight:  7 inches to 1 foot, 3 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  3 to 14 poundsLife Span:  10 to 15 years
The Yorkipoo loves people and fun, not necessarily in that order. He will delight his family and is always willing to perform tricks or show off for any visitor. His confidence keeps him from being overly snappy or aggressive; he"s happy in his own skin. The Yorkipoo can be an excellent companion to anyone looking for a small, confident dog with ample energy and even greater love. Like most of the Poodle hybrids, the Yorkipoo was originally designed to be a companion dog who could reside with allergy sufferers. The goal was a small dog who didn"t have the diseases of either the Yorkshire Terrier or Poodle, both of whom have suffered from health problems related to poor breeding or overbreeding. Both breeds are intelligent, though, and so is the Yorkipoo. Both breeds enjoy performance competition, such as agility and obedience — and so does the Yorkipoo. The Yorkie is more independent than the Poodle, so a Yorkipoo"s independence depends on the temperaments of the individual parents, the Poodle parent in particular. Yorkies don"t necessarily need to be on your lap, whereas Toy and Miniature Poodles are practically barnacles; with the Yorkipoo it all depends, again, on the parents. The Yorkipoo has low-dander, a low-shedding coat, and the small size of a toy breed. He"s happy in many different types of homes and can make an excellent companion for the elderly. With his gentle and loving disposition, the Yorkipoo has proven that he can be a successful therapy dog. Unfortunately, some dogs who weigh less than 10 pounds are clueless about their physical size and have been known to launch themselves at big dogs, and the Yorkipoo falls into this category. To protect your Yorkipoo from himself, introduce him to large dogs under supervision, before they interact on their own, to prevent potentially disastrous consequences. Dog parks intended for all sizes of dogs are not suited to canines weighing less than 10 pounds as it"s all too easy for them to be seen as prey, and for them to foolishly act aggressively toward a large dog. The Yorkipoo does well at training and is usually a quick learner. He can be stubborn, but this trait tends to rear its ugly head if training is harsh or becomes repetitive. Keep his lessons fun and interesting, and all should go easily. Consistent, positive reinforcement is the only way to train a Yorkipoo, especially since harsh corrections can seriously injure such a small dog. Even if injuries weren"t a concern, negative reinforcement doesn"t work with this dog because he"ll simply shut down. The Yorkipoo enjoys barking just a little too much ("I love this and I"m good at it!") and generally makes an excellent watchdog. He"ll alert bark when someone comes to the door or when he sees anything suspicious (and the chances are good he"s got a different definition of suspicious than you do). Some Yorkipoos can be trained to only bark once or twice, but many cannot. There"s a difference between an intentional breeding of carefully selected Yorkshire Terriers and Poodles versus a Poodle mix who"s called a Yorkipoo because no one has any clue what his background really is. When the mix works as intended, you get the intelligence and spirit of the Poodle and the bold terrier aspects of the Yorkie. Of course, when the mix doesn"t work, you can get a submissive, urinating fear-biter — but that can happen in any mixed breed, and in any purebred with unhappy genes.
The Yorkipoo is a designer dog and is the result of Yorkshire Terrier to Toy or Miniature Poodle breedings. There"s been an increase in multigenerational breeding (Yorkipoo to Yorkipoo), and also in Yorkipoo to Poodle or Yorkipoo to Yorkshire Terrier breeding; but many litters are first generation, the result of breeding two purebred parents. A Yorkipoo is active and energetic, as are both Poodles and Yorkies. He requires daily exercise and does well with a good walk or romp in the yard. Barking is a favorite pastime. Occasionally a Yorkipoo can be trained to bark less, but expect to hear the noise whenever someone comes to the door. He has no clue that his bark doesn"t terrify anyone. He is a non- to low-shedder and can make an excellent companion for people with allergies. Daily brushing is needed to keep his fine, silky coat free of tangles and mats. Loving and gentle, the Yorkipoo can make an excellent companion to older, more considerate children. Like most toy breeds, he"s not recommended for homes with very young children. He"s easy to train if you use positive reinforcement. He"s got a stubborn streak, though, so expect some occasional resistance. The Yorkipoo can live very happily in an apartment. He generally does well with other dogs and pets. A companion dog, he may suffer from separation anxiety when left alone for long periods at a time. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
Like many designer breeds, the Yorkipoo is quite a young hybrid — he"s been popular for about a decade. He was originally developed to create a toy-sized dog who had a hypoallergenic coat and was free of the genetic disorders that affected the parent breeds, the Yorkshire Terrier and the Toy or Miniature Poodle. The success of crossing the Poodle with the Yorkshire Terrier has had mixed results, as with any hybrid; but the popularity of the Yorkipoo has grown. Today, most Yorkipoo litters are still the result of first-generation breeding, but some breeders have concentrated on multigenerational crosses in an effort to see the Yorkipoo produce offspring who confirm more consistently to the desired traits. There are no breed groups or registries for the Yorkipoo, but efforts have begun to create a direction for all Yorkipoo breeders; these will soon be available at a pending site called www.yorkipoo.org.
The Yorkipoo ranges from 7 to 15 inches in height and 3 to 14 pounds in weight. Size can differ between individuals, and the mature adult size is usually a reflection of the size of Poodle who was used for the crossbreeding.
The Yorkipoo is an active, affectionate, fun-loving dog who relishes the company of people. He is loving and loyal, a true companion dog who enjoys participating in family activities. He"s confident, thanks to his terrier heritage, but usually he"s also easygoing and less demanding than many other small breeds. He"s intelligent enough that, given consistent and positive training, he can be a perfect companion. He tends to be watchful and is happy looking at the world from the warmth of his owner"s lap, but he also enjoys exploring new things on his own. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who"s beating up his littermates or the one who"s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who"s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you"re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, the Yorkipoo needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Yorkipoo puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Yorkipoos are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Yorkipoos will get any or all of these diseases, but it"s important to be aware of them if you"re considering this breed. If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Yorkipoos, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Epilepsy: Epilepsy is a neurological condition that"s often, but not always, inherited. It can cause mild or severe seizures that may show themselves as unusual behavior (such as running frantically as if being chased, staggering, or hiding) or even by falling down, limbs rigid, and losing consciousness. Seizures are frightening to watch, but the long-term prognosis for dogs with idiopathic epilepsy is generally very good. It"s important to take your dog to the vet for proper diagnosis (especially since seizures can have other causes) and treatment. Patellar Luxation: Also known as slipped stifles, this is a common problem in small dogs. The patella is the kneecap. Luxation means dislocation of an anatomical part (as a bone at a joint). Patellar luxation is when the knee joint (often of a hind leg) slides in and out of place, causing pain. This can be crippling, although many dogs lead relatively normal lives with this condition. Portosystemic Shunt (PSS): This is an abnormal flow of blood between the liver and the body. That"s a problem, because the liver is responsible for detoxifying the body, metabolizing nutrients, and eliminating drugs. Signs can include but are not limited to neurobehavioral abnormalities, lack of appetite, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), intermittent gastrointestinal issues, urinary tract problems, drug intolerance, and stunted growth. Signs usually appear before two years of age. Corrective surgery can be helpful in long-term management, as can a special diet. Legg-Calve-Perthes Disease: This is a condition involving the hip joint. If your Yorkipoo has Legg-Perthes, the blood supply to the head of the femur (the large rear leg bone) is decreased, and the head of the femur that connects to the pelvis begins to disintegrate. The first symptoms, limping and atrophy of the leg muscle, usually occur when puppies are four to six months old. Surgery can correct the condition, usually resulting in a pain-free puppy. Hypothyroidism: This is a disorder of the thyroid gland. It"s thought to be responsible for conditions such as epilepsy, alopecia (hair loss), obesity, lethargy, hyperpigmentation, pyoderma ,and other skin conditions. It is treated with medication and diet. Hyperadrenocorticism: Also known as Addison"s disease, this is an extremely serious condition. It"s caused by an insufficient production of adrenal hormones by the adrenal gland. Most dogs with Addison"s disease vomit, have a poor appetite, and have little energy. Because these signs are vague and can be mistaken for other conditions, it"s easy to misdiagnose this disease until it reaches more advanced stages. More severe signs occur when a dog is stressed or when potassium levels become high enough to interfere with heart function, causing severe shock and death. If your vet suspects Addison"s, a series of tests can confirm the diagnosis. Atopic Dermatitis: This is an inherited skin disease that manifests itself as a predisposition to develop allergic symptoms following repeated exposure to some otherwise harmless substance, typically an allergen such as dust mites or pollen. It usually shows up by the time the dog is about three years old. An atopic animal usually rubs, licks, chews, bites, or scratches at his feet, muzzle, ears, armpits, or groin. This irritation causes hair loss and redness and thickening of the skin. Treatment involves removing the allergen as much as possible, and administering antihistamines and steroids. Use hypoallergenic shampoos on affected dogs.
The Yorkipoo is equally at home in a house or an apartment. He"s far too small to live outside; he must live indoors for both his physical and emotional well-being. He requires daily exercise, since he has a surprising amount of energy (read between those lines). A daily walk or romp in the yard will provide enough exercise to keep him healthy and happy. The Yorkipoo can also burn off steam by playing a game of fetch down a hallway. Crate training benefits every dog and is a kind way to ensure that your Yorkipoo doesn"t have accidents in the house or get into things he shouldn"t. A crate is also a place where he can retreat for a nap. Crate training at a young age will help your Yorkipoo accept confinement if he ever needs to be boarded or hospitalized. Never stick your Yorkipoo in a crate all day long, however. It"s not a jail, and he shouldn"t spend more than a few hours at a time in it except when he"s sleeping at night. Yorkipoos are people dogs, and they aren"t meant to spend their lives locked up in a crate or kennel.
Recommended daily amount: 1/4 to 1 cup of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. NOTE: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl. Keep your Yorkipoo in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Yorkipoo, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The coat of the Yorkipoo can range from straight to curly, and it should be luxuriously soft and silky in texture — running your fingers through it is heavenly. Although it"s different for every Yorkipoo, a puppy resulting from a multigenerational breeding (a Yorkipoo crossed with another Yorkipoo) is supposed to be odorless and nonshedding — although "nonshedding" is a fantasy, since every dog on the planet sheds at least a tiny bit. The Yorkipoo produces little dander, which is actually the trait that appeals to the allergic owner. The Yorkipoo is seen in a wide variety of colors, including cream, black, white, red, sable, apricot, tan, chocolate, gray, and silver. This versatile boy can sport multiple colors and a wide variety of markings, including black with tan points. Although he"s considered to be a non- to low-shedder, the Yorkipoo requires care in keeping that fine coat silky and healthy. Brushing him daily wards off tangles. Brush the hair away from the eyes to prevent it from becoming an irritant, which it will certainly be if this task is neglected. You can also protect his eyes by trimming the hair with a pair of scissors. His coat should be trimmed regularly to whatever length you prefer; that"s the beauty of a designer breed. No one is going to say you"ve clipped him incorrectly, because there is no "correct" cut. Bathing keeps his coat silky to the touch, but he only needs to be bathed when it"s necessary, not on a schedule. Brush your Yorkipoo"s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Toy breeds are notorious for dental problems, as it"s tough to get all those teeth into such a tiny mouth. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn"t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog"s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections. Don"t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your Yorkipoo to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
The Yorkipoo is a gentle and loving dog who can do well with children. He"s not recommended for homes with very young children, since he can be easily injured when improperly handled. A Yorkipoo can make an excellent companion for an older, more considerate child. As with every breed, you should always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he"s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog"s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. In general, he does well with other dogs and pets (not that there are a lot of pets much smaller than he is, but he doesn"t grasp that). He may display prey drive due to his Yorkie parent, however. That may lead him to chase smaller pets and cats, but usually it"s in good fun.
No information found

Yorkshire Terrier
"Adaptability" : [ "Adapts Well to Apartment Living" : 5,
"Good For Novice Owners" : 4,
"Sensitivity Level" : 5,
"Tolerates Being Alone" : 2,
"Tolerates Cold Weather" : 2,
"Tolerates Hot Weather" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.33

"All Around Friendliness" : [ "Affectionate with Family" : 4,
"Incredibly Kid Friendly Dogs" : 2,
"Dog Friendly" : 3,
"Friendly Toward Strangers" : 2]
Grouping total: 3.1

"Health Grooming" : [ "Amount Of Shedding" : 2,
"Drooling Potential" : 1,
"Easy To Groom" : 1,
"General Health" : 4,
"Potential For Weight Gain" : 2,
"Size" : 1]
Grouping total: 2.62

"Trainability" : [ "Easy To Train" : 3,
"Intelligence" : 3,
"Potential For Mouthiness" : 2,
"Prey Drive" : 2,
"Tendency To Bark Or Howl" : 3,
"Wanderlust Potential" : 3]
Grouping total: 2.64

"Exercise Needs" : [ "Energy Level" : 5,
"Intensity" : 4,
"Exercise Needs" : 4,
"Potential For Playfulness" : 5]
Grouping total: 2.92

Dog Breed Group:  Companion DogsHeight:  8 inches to 9 inches tall at the shoulderWeight:  4 to 6 poundsLife Span:  12 to 15 years
The Yorkshire Terrier, nicknamed the Yorkie, seems quite full of himself, and why not? With his long silky coat and perky topknot, the Yorkshire Terrier is one of the most glamorous representatives of the dog world, sure to attract attention wherever he goes. Because he"s so small he often travels in style — in special dog purses toted around by his adoring owner.The long steel-blue and tan coat may be the Yorkie"s crowning glory, but it"s his personality that truly endears him to his family. Oblivious to his small size (weighing in at no more than seven pounds), the Yorkshire Terrier is a big dog in a small body, always on the lookout for adventure and maybe even a bit of trouble.Yorkshire Terriers are affectionate towards their people as one would expect from a companion dog, but true to their terrier heritage, they"re sometimes suspicious of strangers, and will bark at strange sounds and intruders. In consideration of your neighbors, it"s important to tone down their yappiness and teach them when and when not to bark.They also can be aggressive toward strange dogs, and no squirrel is safe from them.Despite their bravado, Yorkshire Terriers have a soft side too. They need lots of attention and time with their family. Long hours of being left alone is not for them. It"s not a good idea to over-protect your Yorkie, however; they"ll pick up on your feelings very quickly, and if your actions say the world"s a dangerous place for them, they can become neurotic.Because of their size, Yorkshire Terriers do better with older children who"ve been taught to respect them than with toddlers and small children. They can become snappish if they"re startled or teased.As long as they get some exercise every day — perhaps a good play session in the living room or a nice walk around the block — Yorkies make fine apartment dogs.No matter what home they live in, they"ll get along with other resident dogs and cats — so long as they were raised with them. Yorkies may become possessive of their owners if a new pet is brought into the house. Being terriers, they may want to challenge the "intruder," and if a fight breaks out, the terrier spirit is to fight to the death. Take a lot of care when you"re introducing a Yorkie to a new animal.A glamorous coat, small size, spunky personality, and undying loyalty to his people. Is it any wonder that Yorkshire Terriers are the second most popular dog breed in the U.S. today?
Yorkshire Terriers are known for being difficult to housetrain. Crate-training is recommended. Yorkshire Terriers don"t like the cold and are prone to chills, especially if they"re damp or in damp areas. Because of their small size, delicate structure, and terrier personality, Yorkshire Terrier generally aren"t recommended for households with toddlers or small children. Some Yorkshire Terriers can be "yappy," barking at every sound they hear. Early and consistent training can help. If you don"t feel qualified to provide this training, consult a professional dog trainer. Yorkshire Terriers can have delicate digestive systems and may be picky eaters. Eating problems can occur if your Yorkie has teeth or gum problems as well. If your Yorkie is showing discomfort when eating or after eating, take him to the vet for a checkup. Yorkshire Terriers think they are big dogs and will try to pick a fight with a big dog if allowed. Be sure to keep your Yorkie under control. Even better, try to socialize your Yorkie at an early age by taking him to obedience classes. Yorkies tend to retain their puppy teeth, especially the canines. When your puppy is around five months old, check his teeth often. If you notice that an adult tooth is trying to come in but the baby tooth is still there, take him to your vet. Retained baby teeth can cause the adult teeth to come in unevenly, which may contribute to tooth decay in later years. To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store. Look for a reputable breeder who tests her breeding dogs to make sure they"re free of genetic diseases that they might pass onto the puppies, and that they have sound temperaments.
During the Industrial Revolution in England, Scottish workers came to Yorkshire to work in the coal mines, textile mills, and factories, bringing with them a dog known as a Clydesdale Terrier or Paisley Terrier. These dogs were much larger than the Yorkshire Terrier we know today, and it"s thought that they were used primarily to catch rats in the mills.The Clydesdale Terriers were probably crossed with other types of terrier, perhaps the English Black and Tan Toy Terrier and the Skye Terrier. The Waterside Terrier may also have contributed to the development of the Yorkshire Terrier. This was a small dog with a long blue-gray coat.In 1861, a Yorkshire Terrier was shown in a bench show as a "broken-haired Scotch Terrier." A dog named Huddersfield Ben, born in 1865, became a popular show dog and is considered to be the father of the modern Yorkshire Terrier. The breed acquired that name in 1870 because that"s where most of its development had taken place.Yorkshire Terriers were first registered in the British Kennel Club stud book in 1874. The first Yorkshire Terrier breed club in England was formed in 1898.The earliest record of a Yorkshire Terrier being born in the U.S. was in 1872. Yorkshire Terriers were able to compete in dog shows as early as 1878. In those early shows, Yorkshire Terriers classes were divided by weight — under 5 pounds and 5 pounds and over. Eventually, exhibitors settled on one class with an average of between 3 and 7 pounds.
Yorkshire Terriers should be 8 to 9 inches at the shoulder and weigh no more than seven pounds, with four to six pounds being preferred.Yorkies are inconsistent in size. It"s not unusual for a single litter to contain one Yorkie weighing less than four pounds, one who weighs five or six pounds, and one who grows to be 12 to 15 pounds.Beware of breeders who offer "tea cup" Yorkshire Terriers. Dogs who are smaller than the standard are prone to genetic disorders and are at a higher health risk in general.
Smart and self-assured, the Yorkshire Terrier is a combination of endearingly small size and adventurous terrier spirit. The breed displays a range of personalities. Some are cuddly and perky, wanting nothing more than to follow in their people"s footsteps throughout the day. Others are mischievous, outgoing, and into everything.Set limits, and your Yorkie will be a wonderful companion, but if you spoil him, watch out! Start training when they"re puppies, and you"ll have much better luck than if you let them have their way and then try to correct bad habits.Like all dogs, Yorkies needs early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they"re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Yorkie will be a friendly, well-rounded dog.
Yorkies are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they"re prone to certain health conditions.If you"re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy"s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Yorkies, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand"s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org). Patellar Luxation: Also known as "slipped stifles," this is a common problem in small dogs. It is caused when the patella, which has three parts — the femur (thigh bone), patella (knee cap), and tibia (calf) — is not properly lined up. This causes a lameness in the leg or an abnormal gait in the dog. It is a disease that is present at birth although the actual misalignment or luxation does not always occur until much later. The rubbing caused by patellar luxation can lead to arthritis, which is a degenerative joint disease. There are four grades of Patellar Luxation ranging from grade I, which is an occasional luxation causing temporary lameness in the joint, to grade IV, in which the turning of the tibia is severe and the patella cannot be realigned manually. This gives the dog a bowlegged appearance. Severe grades of patellar luxation may require surgical repair. Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA): A degenerative eye disorder. Blindness caused by PRA is a slow process resulting from the loss of photoreceptors at the back of the eye. PRA is detectable years before the dog shows any signs of blindness. Reputable breeders have their dogs" eyes certified annually by a veterinary ophthalmologist. Portosystemic Shunt: Portosystemic shunt (PSS) is an abnormal flow of blood between the liver and the body. That"s a problem, because the liver is responsible for detoxifying the body, metabolizing nutrients, and eliminating drugs. Signs can include but are not limited to neurobehavioral abnormalities, lack of appetite, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), intermittent gastrointestinal issues, urinary tract problems, drug intolerance, and stunted growth. Signs usually appear before two years of age. Corrective surgery can be helpful in long-term management, as can a special diet. Hypoglycemia: Like many toy and small breed dogs, Yorkies can suffer from hypoglycemia when stressed, especially when they are puppies. Hypoglycemia is caused by low blood sugar. Some of the signs may include weakness, confusion, a wobbly gait, and seizure-like episodes. If your dog is susceptible to this, talk to your vet about prevention and treatment options. Collapsed trachea: The trachea, which carries air to the lungs, tends to collapse easily. The most common sign of a collapsed trachea is a chronic, dry, harsh cough that many describe as being similar to a "goose honk." Collapsed trachea can be treated medically or surgically. Reverse sneezing: This condition is sometimes confused with a collapsed trachea. This is a far less serious condition and lasts only a few minutes. Reverse sneezing primarily occurs when your dog is excited or tries to eat or drink too fast. It also can occur when there are pollens or other irritants in the air. Secretions from the dog"s nose drop onto their soft palate, causing it to close over the windpipe in an automatic reaction. This can be very frightening to your Yorkie, but as soon as he calms down, the reverse sneezing stops. Gently stroke his throat to help him relax. Eye infections, teeth, and gum problems also can occur.
Yorkshire Terriers enjoy taking a walk with you or playing outside, but since they"re very active while indoors, it doesn"t take a lot of effort to keep them well exercised.In general, Yorkies are receptive to training, especially if it brings them attention for performing cute tricks or performing in agility or obedience trials. They can be difficult to housetrain, however, because their "accidents" are so small and easy to clean up that people let it slide. That"s a mistake. It"s better to show them where to go from the beginning and reward them for doing their business in the right place. When you make the effort, you can end up with a very well trained Yorkie indeed.They definitely are housedogs and don"t tolerate extreme heat or cold well. Many people paper train their Yorkshire Terriers so they don"t have to take them outdoors when the weather is too hot or cold.Yorkies love squeaky toys, but it"s important to check the toy every few days to make sure they haven"t chewed them open and pulled out the squeaker. They especially enjoy fetching toys that you throw for them. If you"re crafty, consider crocheting a ball for your Yorkie — larger than a golf ball but smaller than a tennis ball — and stuffing it with used panty hose. He"ll love it!
Recommended daily amount: 1/2 to 3/4 cup of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals.Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don"t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you"ll need to shake into your dog"s bowl.Take care that your Yorkie doesn"t get fat. Roly-poly is not a good look for this elegant breed. Keep your Yorkie in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you"re unsure whether he"s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test.First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can"t, he needs less food and more exercise.For more on feeding your Yorkshire Terrier, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Yorkshire Terrier"s coat is long, silky, and perfectly straight without any hint of a wave. Show dogs have hair that reaches the floor. They have a single coat and shed very little.Puppies are born black, with the blue and tan coat developing gradually, usually after they"re a year old. Puppies that start to lighten before they"re a year old often turn gray rather than blue.From the back of the head to the tip of the tail, the hair is a dark steel-blue — sometimes described as the blue of a rifle barrel — with a bluish sheen when seen in the sunlight. The head is bright gold, not reddish, with tan hairs that are darker at the roots than at the ends. The headfall (the hair that falls over the face) is long with the same golden hue as the face.The hair is slightly darker at the base of the ears and on the muzzle. The tan on the head doesn"t extend past the ears, and no black hairs are mixed in with the tan. Yorkshire Terriers have tan legs as well, but the tan color doesn"t extend above the elbow.An interesting fact is that Yorkies tend to become lighter with age. Hormonal changes can also affect color. Females in heat go lighter, and then darken again after their season is over.Grooming a long-haired Yorkshire Terrier is not for the faint of heart, especially if he has a "soft" coat that tangles easily instead of a silky one! Even if you keep his coat trimmed short, gently brush your Yorkie"s coat every day to help prevent mats and keep him clean.Small breeds are prone to dental problems, and Yorkies are no exception. Yorkshire Terriers tend to form a lot of tartar on their teeth and can lose their teeth at a young age, so brush their teeth regularly and schedule a professional cleaning by your vet at least once a year.As part of the grooming process, check your Yorkie"s ears regularly. Look inside them and give them a good sniff. If they appear to be infected (have an offensive odor, redness, or a brown discharge), ask your vet to check them. If there"s hair in the ear canal, pluck it out with your fingers or ask your vet or groomer to do it for you.Bathe your Yorkie weekly to keep his coat beautiful and shiny. There"s no need to rub the coat to wash it. After wetting the coat and applying the shampoo, all you need to do is run your fingers through it to lift the dirt out. Apply conditioner, then rinse thoroughly.When you"re drying your Yorkie, spray the coat with a light conditioner. Give the coat a spritz with a light conditioner when you"re brushing him as well. Never brush a dry or dirty coat or you"ll break the hair.Trim your Yorkie"s nails after each bath to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you hear them clicking on the floor, they"re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out. So, if you"re not experienced trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers.When you"re grooming your Yorkie, be sure to check the anal area and trim around it with scissors if the hair"s getting too long. Usually trimming about a half inch of hair around it is enough.After you"ve brushed your Yorkie and he"s dry, collect the hair on the top of his head, starting at the outer corner of the eye, going back at an angle toward the center of head, then back down to the outer corner of the other eye. Brush this hair up and fasten it with a latex band, and then add your favorite bow.Begin accustoming your Yorkie to being brushed and examined when he"s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you"ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he"s an adult.As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Because of their small size, Yorkies aren"t suited to families with young children. Most breeders won"t sell puppies to people whose children are younger than 5 or 6 years old. It"s just too easy for children to drop them, step on them, or hold them too tightly.Yorkies can get along well with other pets, including cats, if socialized to them at an early age. They"re bold in going after strange dogs, however, even those that outweigh them by a factor of ten, and protecting them from themselves becomes second nature to people with Yorkies.
No information found

